consequence of antecedent sensations transmitted and registered. consequence of antecedent sensations transmitted and registered.
Describe the alterations effected in the disposition of the articles of Describe the alterations effected in the disposition of the articles of
furniture. furniture.
A sofa upholstered in prune plush had been translocated from opposite the A sofa upholstered in prune plush had been translocated from opposite the
large dull passive and a slender bright active: with solicitation, large dull passive and a slender bright active: with solicitation,
bending and downturning the upturned rugfringe: with amusement, bending and downturning the upturned rugfringe: with amusement,
remembering Dr Malachi Mulligan's scheme of colour containing the remembering Dr Malachi Mulligan's scheme of colour containing the
STEPHEN: Dance of death. STEPHEN: Dance of death.
hide him from himself, an old dog licking an old sore. But, because loss hide him from himself, an old dog licking an old sore. But, because loss
is his gain, he passes on towards eternity in undiminished personality, is his gain, he passes on towards eternity in undiminished personality,
untaught by the wisdom he has written or by the laws he has revealed. His untaught by the wisdom he has written or by the laws he has revealed. His
beaver is up. He is a ghost, a shadow now, the wind by Elsinore's rocks beaver is up. He is a ghost, a shadow now, the wind by Elsinore's rocks
or what you will, the sea's voice, a voice heard only in the heart of him or what you will, the sea's voice, a voice heard only in the heart of him
who is the substance of his shadow, the son consubstantial with the who is the substance of his shadow, the son consubstantial with the
father. father.
--Amen! was responded from the doorway. --Amen! was responded from the doorway.
Hast thou found me, O mine enemy? Hast thou found me, O mine enemy?
ENTR'ACTE. ENTR'ACTE.
A ribald face, sullen as a dean's, Buck Mulligan came forward, then A ribald face, sullen as a dean's, Buck Mulligan came forward, then
blithe in motley, towards the greeting of their smiles. My telegram. blithe in motley, towards the greeting of their smiles. My telegram.
--You were speaking of the gaseous vertebrate, if I mistake not? he asked --You were speaking of the gaseous vertebrate, if I mistake not? he asked
of Stephen. of Stephen.
Primrosevested he greeted gaily with his doffed Panama as with a bauble. Primrosevested he greeted gaily with his doffed Panama as with a bauble.
They make him welcome. WAS DU VERLACHST WIRST DU NOCH DIENEN. They make him welcome. WAS DU VERLACHST WIRST DU NOCH DIENEN.
Brood of mockers: Photius, pseudomalachi, Johann Most. Brood of mockers: Photius, pseudomalachi, Johann Most.
He Who Himself begot middler the Holy Ghost and Himself sent Himself, He Who Himself begot middler the Holy Ghost and Himself sent Himself,
Agenbuyer, between Himself and others, Who, put upon by His fiends, Agenbuyer, between Himself and others, Who, put upon by His fiends,
stripped and whipped, was nailed like bat to barndoor, starved on stripped and whipped, was nailed like bat to barndoor, starved on
crosstree, Who let Him bury, stood up, harrowed hell, fared into heaven crosstree, Who let Him bury, stood up, harrowed hell, fared into heaven
and there these nineteen hundred years sitteth on the right hand of His and there these nineteen hundred years sitteth on the right hand of His
Own Self but yet shall come in the latter day to doom the quick and dead Own Self but yet shall come in the latter day to doom the quick and dead
when all the quick shall be dead already. when all the quick shall be dead already.
Glo--o--ri--a in ex--cel--sis De--o. Glo--o--ri--a in ex--cel--sis De--o.
He lifts his hands. Veils fall. O, flowers! Bells with bells with bells He lifts his hands. Veils fall. O, flowers! Bells with bells with bells
aquiring. aquiring.
--Yes, indeed, the quaker librarian said. A most instructive discussion. --Yes, indeed, the quaker librarian said. A most instructive discussion.
Mr Mulligan, I'll be bound, has his theory too of the play and of Mr Mulligan, I'll be bound, has his theory too of the play and of
Shakespeare. All sides of life should be represented. Shakespeare. All sides of life should be represented.
He smiled on all sides equally. He smiled on all sides equally.
Buck Mulligan thought, puzzled: Buck Mulligan thought, puzzled:
--Shakespeare? he said. I seem to know the name. --Shakespeare? he said. I seem to know the name.
A flying sunny smile rayed in his loose features. A flying sunny smile rayed in his loose features.
--To be sure, he said, remembering brightly. The chap that writes like --To be sure, he said, remembering brightly. The chap that writes like
Synge. Synge.
Mr Best turned to him. Mr Best turned to him.
--Haines missed you, he said. Did you meet him? He'll see you after at --Haines missed you, he said. Did you meet him? He'll see you after at
the D. B. C. He's gone to Gill's to buy Hyde's LOVESONGS OF CONNACHT. the D. B. C. He's gone to Gill's to buy Hyde's LOVESONGS OF CONNACHT.
--I came through the museum, Buck Mulligan said. Was he here? --I came through the museum, Buck Mulligan said. Was he here?
--The bard's fellowcountrymen, John Eglinton answered, are rather tired --The bard's fellowcountrymen, John Eglinton answered, are rather tired
perhaps of our brilliancies of theorising. I hear that an actress played perhaps of our brilliancies of theorising. I hear that an actress played
Hamlet for the fourhundredandeighth time last night in Dublin. Vining Hamlet for the fourhundredandeighth time last night in Dublin. Vining
held that the prince was a woman. Has no-one made him out to be an held that the prince was a woman. Has no-one made him out to be an
Irishman? Judge Barton, I believe, is searching for some clues. He swears Irishman? Judge Barton, I believe, is searching for some clues. He swears
(His Highness not His Lordship) by saint Patrick. (His Highness not His Lordship) by saint Patrick.
--The most brilliant of all is that story of Wilde's, Mr Best said, --The most brilliant of all is that story of Wilde's, Mr Best said,
lifting his brilliant notebook. That PORTRAIT OF MR W. H. where he proves lifting his brilliant notebook. That PORTRAIT OF MR W. H. where he proves
that the sonnets were written by a Willie Hughes, a man all hues. that the sonnets were written by a Willie Hughes, a man all hues.
Penelope Rich, a clean quality woman is suited for a player, and the Penelope Rich, a clean quality woman is suited for a player, and the
punks of the bankside, a penny a time. punks of the bankside, a penny a time.
Cours la Reine. ENCORE VINGT SOUS. NOUS FERONS DE PETITES COCHONNERIES. Cours la Reine. ENCORE VINGT SOUS. NOUS FERONS DE PETITES COCHONNERIES.
MINETTE? TU VEUX? MINETTE? TU VEUX?
--The height of fine society. And sir William Davenant of oxford's mother --The height of fine society. And sir William Davenant of oxford's mother
with her cup of canary for any cockcanary. with her cup of canary for any cockcanary.
Buck Mulligan, his pious eyes upturned, prayed: Buck Mulligan, his pious eyes upturned, prayed:
--Blessed Margaret Mary Anycock! --Blessed Margaret Mary Anycock!
BLOOM: There is a memory attached to it. I should like to have it. BLOOM: There is a memory attached to it. I should like to have it.
STEPHEN: To have or not to have that is the question. STEPHEN: To have or not to have that is the question.
ZOE: Here. (SHE HAULS UP A REEF OF HER SLIP, REVEALING HER BARE THIGH, ZOE: Here. (SHE HAULS UP A REEF OF HER SLIP, REVEALING HER BARE THIGH,
AND UNROLLS THE POTATO FROM THE TOP OF HER STOCKING) Those that hides AND UNROLLS THE POTATO FROM THE TOP OF HER STOCKING) Those that hides
knows where to find. knows where to find.
BELLA: (FROWNS) Here. This isn't a musical peepshow. And don't you smash BELLA: (FROWNS) Here. This isn't a musical peepshow. And don't you smash
that piano. Who's paying here? that piano. Who's paying here?
(SHE GOES TO THE PIANOLA. STEPHEN FUMBLES IN HIS POCKET AND, TAKING OUT A (SHE GOES TO THE PIANOLA. STEPHEN FUMBLES IN HIS POCKET AND, TAKING OUT A
BANKNOTE BY ITS CORNER, HANDS IT TO HER.) BANKNOTE BY ITS CORNER, HANDS IT TO HER.)
STEPHEN: (WITH EXAGGERATED POLITENESS) This silken purse I made out of STEPHEN: (WITH EXAGGERATED POLITENESS) This silken purse I made out of
the sow's ear of the public. Madam, excuse me. If you allow me. (HE the sow's ear of the public. Madam, excuse me. If you allow me. (HE
INDICATES VAGUELY LYNCH AND BLOOM) We are all in the same sweepstake, INDICATES VAGUELY LYNCH AND BLOOM) We are all in the same sweepstake,
Kinch and Lynch. DANS CE BORDEL OU TENONS NOSTRE ETAT. Kinch and Lynch. DANS CE BORDEL OU TENONS NOSTRE ETAT.
LYNCH: (CALLS FROM THE HEARTH) Dedalus! Give her your blessing for me. LYNCH: (CALLS FROM THE HEARTH) Dedalus! Give her your blessing for me.
STEPHEN: (HANDS BELLA A COIN) Gold. She has it. STEPHEN: (HANDS BELLA A COIN) Gold. She has it.
BELLA: (LOOKS AT THE MONEY, THEN AT STEPHEN, THEN AT ZOE, FLORRY AND BELLA: (LOOKS AT THE MONEY, THEN AT STEPHEN, THEN AT ZOE, FLORRY AND
KITTY) Do you want three girls? It's ten shillings here. KITTY) Do you want three girls? It's ten shillings here.
STEPHEN: (DELIGHTEDLY) A hundred thousand apologies. (HE FUMBLES AGAIN STEPHEN: (DELIGHTEDLY) A hundred thousand apologies. (HE FUMBLES AGAIN
AND TAKES OUT AND HANDS HER TWO CROWNS) Permit, BREVI MANU, my sight is AND TAKES OUT AND HANDS HER TWO CROWNS) Permit, BREVI MANU, my sight is
somewhat troubled. somewhat troubled.
(BELLA GOES TO THE TABLE TO COUNT THE MONEY WHILE STEPHEN TALKS TO (BELLA GOES TO THE TABLE TO COUNT THE MONEY WHILE STEPHEN TALKS TO
HIMSELF IN MONOSYLLABLES. ZOE BENDS OVER THE TABLE. KITTY LEANS OVER HIMSELF IN MONOSYLLABLES. ZOE BENDS OVER THE TABLE. KITTY LEANS OVER
ZOE'S NECK. LYNCH GETS UP, RIGHTS HIS CAP AND, CLASPING KITTY'S WAIST, ZOE'S NECK. LYNCH GETS UP, RIGHTS HIS CAP AND, CLASPING KITTY'S WAIST,
ADDS HIS HEAD TO THE GROUP.) ADDS HIS HEAD TO THE GROUP.)
FLORRY: (STRIVES HEAVILY TO RISE) Ow! My foot's asleep. (SHE LIMPS OVER FLORRY: (STRIVES HEAVILY TO RISE) Ow! My foot's asleep. (SHE LIMPS OVER
TO THE TABLE. BLOOM APPROACHES.) TO THE TABLE. BLOOM APPROACHES.)
BELLA, ZOE, KITTY, LYNCH, BLOOM: (CHATTERING AND SQUABBLING) The BELLA, ZOE, KITTY, LYNCH, BLOOM: (CHATTERING AND SQUABBLING) The
gentleman ... ten shillings ... paying for the three ... allow me a gentleman ... ten shillings ... paying for the three ... allow me a
moment ... this gentleman pays separate ... who's touching it? ... ow! moment ... this gentleman pays separate ... who's touching it? ... ow!
... mind who you're pinching ... are you staying the night or a short ... mind who you're pinching ... are you staying the night or a short
time?... who did?... you're a liar, excuse me ... the gentleman paid down time?... who did?... you're a liar, excuse me ... the gentleman paid down
like a gentleman ... drink ... it's long after eleven. like a gentleman ... drink ... it's long after eleven.
STEPHEN: (AT THE PIANOLA, MAKING A GESTURE OF ABHORRENCE) No bottles! STEPHEN: (AT THE PIANOLA, MAKING A GESTURE OF ABHORRENCE) No bottles!
What, eleven? A riddle! What, eleven? A riddle!
ZOE: (LIFTING UP HER PETTIGOWN AND FOLDING A HALF SOVEREIGN INTO THE TOP ZOE: (LIFTING UP HER PETTIGOWN AND FOLDING A HALF SOVEREIGN INTO THE TOP
OF HER STOCKING) Hard earned on the flat of my back. OF HER STOCKING) Hard earned on the flat of my back.
LYNCH: (LIFTING KITTY FROM THE TABLE) Come! LYNCH: (LIFTING KITTY FROM THE TABLE) Come!
KITTY: Wait. (SHE CLUTCHES THE TWO CROWNS) KITTY: Wait. (SHE CLUTCHES THE TWO CROWNS)
FLORRY: And me? FLORRY: And me?
LYNCH: Hoopla! (HE LIFTS HER, CARRIES HER AND BUMPS HER DOWN ON THE LYNCH: Hoopla! (HE LIFTS HER, CARRIES HER AND BUMPS HER DOWN ON THE
SOFA.) SOFA.)
STEPHEN: STEPHEN:
    The fox crew, the cocks flew,     The fox crew, the cocks flew,
    The bells in heaven     The bells in heaven
    Were striking eleven.     Were striking eleven.
    'Tis time for her poor soul     'Tis time for her poor soul
    To get out of heaven.     To get out of heaven.
account of her to never see thy face again though he looked more like a account of her to never see thy face again though he looked more like a
man with his beard a bit grown in the bed father was the same besides I man with his beard a bit grown in the bed father was the same besides I
hate bandaging and dosing when he cut his toe with the razor paring his hate bandaging and dosing when he cut his toe with the razor paring his
corns afraid hed get bloodpoisoning but if it was a thing I was sick then corns afraid hed get bloodpoisoning but if it was a thing I was sick then
wed see what attention only of course the woman hides it not to give all wed see what attention only of course the woman hides it not to give all
the trouble they do yes he came somewhere Im sure by his appetite anyway the trouble they do yes he came somewhere Im sure by his appetite anyway
love its not or hed be off his feed thinking of her so either it was one love its not or hed be off his feed thinking of her so either it was one
of those night women if it was down there he was really and the hotel of those night women if it was down there he was really and the hotel
story he made up a pack of lies to hide it planning it Hynes kept me who story he made up a pack of lies to hide it planning it Hynes kept me who
did I meet ah yes I met do you remember Menton and who else who let me did I meet ah yes I met do you remember Menton and who else who let me
see that big babbyface I saw him and he not long married flirting with a see that big babbyface I saw him and he not long married flirting with a
Kind of a placid. No worry. Fall into flesh, don't they? Gluttons, tall, Kind of a placid. No worry. Fall into flesh, don't they? Gluttons, tall,
long legs. Who knows? Eunuch. One way out of it. long legs. Who knows? Eunuch. One way out of it.
He saw the priest bend down and kiss the altar and then face about He saw the priest bend down and kiss the altar and then face about
and bless all the people. All crossed themselves and stood up. Mr Bloom and bless all the people. All crossed themselves and stood up. Mr Bloom
glanced about him and then stood up, looking over the risen hats. Stand up glanced about him and then stood up, looking over the risen hats. Stand up
at the gospel of course. Then all settled down on their knees again and he at the gospel of course. Then all settled down on their knees again and he
sat back quietly in his bench. The priest came down from the altar, sat back quietly in his bench. The priest came down from the altar,
holding the thing out from him, and he and the massboy answered each other holding the thing out from him, and he and the massboy answered each other
in Latin. Then the priest knelt down and began to read off a card: in Latin. Then the priest knelt down and began to read off a card:
--O God, our refuge and our strength ... --O God, our refuge and our strength ...
Mr Bloom put his face forward to catch the words. English. Throw Mr Bloom put his face forward to catch the words. English. Throw
them the bone. I remember slightly. How long since your last mass? them the bone. I remember slightly. How long since your last mass?
Glorious and immaculate virgin. Joseph, her spouse. Peter and Paul. More Glorious and immaculate virgin. Joseph, her spouse. Peter and Paul. More
interesting if you understood what it was all about. Wonderful interesting if you understood what it was all about. Wonderful
organisation certainly, goes like clockwork. Confession. Everyone wants organisation certainly, goes like clockwork. Confession. Everyone wants
to. Then I will tell you all. Penance. Punish me, please. Great weapon in to. Then I will tell you all. Penance. Punish me, please. Great weapon in
their hands. More than doctor or solicitor. Woman dying to. And I their hands. More than doctor or solicitor. Woman dying to. And I
schschschschschsch. And did you chachachachacha? And why did you? Look schschschschschsch. And did you chachachachacha? And why did you? Look
down at her ring to find an excuse. Whispering gallery walls have ears. down at her ring to find an excuse. Whispering gallery walls have ears.
Husband learn to his surprise. God's little joke. Then out she comes. Husband learn to his surprise. God's little joke. Then out she comes.
Repentance skindeep. Lovely shame. Pray at an altar. Hail Mary and Repentance skindeep. Lovely shame. Pray at an altar. Hail Mary and
Holy Mary. Flowers, incense, candles melting. Hide her blushes. Holy Mary. Flowers, incense, candles melting. Hide her blushes.
Salvation army blatant imitation. Reformed prostitute will address Salvation army blatant imitation. Reformed prostitute will address
the meeting. How I found the Lord. Squareheaded chaps those must be the meeting. How I found the Lord. Squareheaded chaps those must be
in Rome: they work the whole show. And don't they rake in the money too? in Rome: they work the whole show. And don't they rake in the money too?
Bequests also: to the P.P. for the time being in his absolute discretion. Bequests also: to the P.P. for the time being in his absolute discretion.
Masses for the repose of my soul to be said publicly with open doors. Masses for the repose of my soul to be said publicly with open doors.
Monasteries and convents. The priest in that Fermanagh will case in Monasteries and convents. The priest in that Fermanagh will case in
the witnessbox. No browbeating him. He had his answer pat for everything. the witnessbox. No browbeating him. He had his answer pat for everything.
Liberty and exaltation of our holy mother the church. The doctors of the Liberty and exaltation of our holy mother the church. The doctors of the
careful. Enough stuff here to chloroform you. Test: turns blue litmus careful. Enough stuff here to chloroform you. Test: turns blue litmus
paper red. Chloroform. Overdose of laudanum. Sleeping draughts. paper red. Chloroform. Overdose of laudanum. Sleeping draughts.
Lovephiltres. Paragoric poppysyrup bad for cough. Clogs the pores or the Lovephiltres. Paragoric poppysyrup bad for cough. Clogs the pores or the
phlegm. Poisons the only cures. Remedy where you least expect it. Clever phlegm. Poisons the only cures. Remedy where you least expect it. Clever
of nature. of nature.
--About a fortnight ago, sir? --About a fortnight ago, sir?
--Yes, Mr Bloom said. --Yes, Mr Bloom said.
He waited by the counter, inhaling slowly the keen reek of drugs, the He waited by the counter, inhaling slowly the keen reek of drugs, the
dusty dry smell of sponges and loofahs. Lot of time taken up telling your dusty dry smell of sponges and loofahs. Lot of time taken up telling your
aches and pains. aches and pains.
--Sweet almond oil and tincture of benzoin, Mr Bloom said, and then --Sweet almond oil and tincture of benzoin, Mr Bloom said, and then
orangeflower water ... orangeflower water ...
It certainly did make her skin so delicate white like wax. It certainly did make her skin so delicate white like wax.
--And white wax also, he said. --And white wax also, he said.
Brings out the darkness of her eyes. Looking at me, the sheet up to Brings out the darkness of her eyes. Looking at me, the sheet up to
her eyes, Spanish, smelling herself, when I was fixing the links in my her eyes, Spanish, smelling herself, when I was fixing the links in my
cuffs. Those homely recipes are often the best: strawberries for the cuffs. Those homely recipes are often the best: strawberries for the
teeth: nettles and rainwater: oatmeal they say steeped in buttermilk. teeth: nettles and rainwater: oatmeal they say steeped in buttermilk.
Skinfood. One of the old queen's sons, duke of Albany was it? had only one Skinfood. One of the old queen's sons, duke of Albany was it? had only one
skin. Leopold, yes. Three we have. Warts, bunions and pimples to make it skin. Leopold, yes. Three we have. Warts, bunions and pimples to make it
worse. But you want a perfume too. What perfume does your? PEAU D'ESPAGNE. worse. But you want a perfume too. What perfume does your? PEAU D'ESPAGNE.
That orangeflower water is so fresh. Nice smell these soaps have. Pure That orangeflower water is so fresh. Nice smell these soaps have. Pure
curd soap. Time to get a bath round the corner. Hammam. Turkish. Massage. curd soap. Time to get a bath round the corner. Hammam. Turkish. Massage.
Dirt gets rolled up in your navel. Nicer if a nice girl did it. Also I Dirt gets rolled up in your navel. Nicer if a nice girl did it. Also I
think I. Yes I. Do it in the bath. Curious longing I. Water to water. think I. Yes I. Do it in the bath. Curious longing I. Water to water.
Combine business with pleasure. Pity no time for massage. Feel fresh then Combine business with pleasure. Pity no time for massage. Feel fresh then
all the day. Funeral be rather glum. all the day. Funeral be rather glum.
--Yes, sir, the chemist said. That was two and nine. Have you brought a --Yes, sir, the chemist said. That was two and nine. Have you brought a
bottle? bottle?
--No, Mr Bloom said. Make it up, please. I'll call later in the day and --No, Mr Bloom said. Make it up, please. I'll call later in the day and
I'll take one of these soaps. How much are they? I'll take one of these soaps. How much are they?
--Fourpence, sir. --Fourpence, sir.
Mr Bloom raised a cake to his nostrils. Sweet lemony wax. Mr Bloom raised a cake to his nostrils. Sweet lemony wax.
--I'll take this one, he said. That makes three and a penny. --I'll take this one, he said. That makes three and a penny.
--Yes, sir, the chemist said. You can pay all together, sir, when you --Yes, sir, the chemist said. You can pay all together, sir, when you
come back. come back.
--Good, Mr Bloom said. --Good, Mr Bloom said.
He strolled out of the shop, the newspaper baton under his armpit, He strolled out of the shop, the newspaper baton under his armpit,
the coolwrappered soap in his left hand. the coolwrappered soap in his left hand.
At his armpit Bantam Lyons' voice and hand said: At his armpit Bantam Lyons' voice and hand said:
--Hello, Bloom. What's the best news? Is that today's? Show us a minute. --Hello, Bloom. What's the best news? Is that today's? Show us a minute.
Shaved off his moustache again, by Jove! Long cold upper lip. To Shaved off his moustache again, by Jove! Long cold upper lip. To
look younger. He does look balmy. Younger than I am. look younger. He does look balmy. Younger than I am.
Bantam Lyons's yellow blacknailed fingers unrolled the baton. Wants Bantam Lyons's yellow blacknailed fingers unrolled the baton. Wants
a wash too. Take off the rough dirt. Good morning, have you used Pears' a wash too. Take off the rough dirt. Good morning, have you used Pears'
soap? Dandruff on his shoulders. Scalp wants oiling. soap? Dandruff on his shoulders. Scalp wants oiling.
--I want to see about that French horse that's running today, Bantam --I want to see about that French horse that's running today, Bantam
There's Hornblower standing at the porter's lodge. Keep him on There's Hornblower standing at the porter's lodge. Keep him on
hands: might take a turn in there on the nod. How do you do, Mr hands: might take a turn in there on the nod. How do you do, Mr
Hornblower? How do you do, sir? Hornblower? How do you do, sir?
Heavenly weather really. If life was always like that. Cricket weather. Heavenly weather really. If life was always like that. Cricket weather.
Sit around under sunshades. Over after over. Out. They can't play it here. Sit around under sunshades. Over after over. Out. They can't play it here.
Duck for six wickets. Still Captain Culler broke a window in the Kildare Duck for six wickets. Still Captain Culler broke a window in the Kildare
street club with a slog to square leg. Donnybrook fair more in their line. street club with a slog to square leg. Donnybrook fair more in their line.
And the skulls we were acracking when M'Carthy took the floor. And the skulls we were acracking when M'Carthy took the floor.
Heatwave. Won't last. Always passing, the stream of life, which in the Heatwave. Won't last. Always passing, the stream of life, which in the
stream of life we trace is dearer than them all. stream of life we trace is dearer than them all.
Enjoy a bath now: clean trough of water, cool enamel, the gentle Enjoy a bath now: clean trough of water, cool enamel, the gentle
tepid stream. This is my body. tepid stream. This is my body.
He foresaw his pale body reclined in it at full, naked, in a womb of He foresaw his pale body reclined in it at full, naked, in a womb of
warmth, oiled by scented melting soap, softly laved. He saw his trunk and warmth, oiled by scented melting soap, softly laved. He saw his trunk and
limbs riprippled over and sustained, buoyed lightly upward, lemonyellow: limbs riprippled over and sustained, buoyed lightly upward, lemonyellow:
his navel, bud of flesh: and saw the dark tangled curls of his bush his navel, bud of flesh: and saw the dark tangled curls of his bush
floating, floating hair of the stream around the limp father of thousands, floating, floating hair of the stream around the limp father of thousands,
a languid floating flower. a languid floating flower.
    * * * * * * *     * * * * * * *
Martin Cunningham, first, poked his silkhatted head into the creaking Martin Cunningham, first, poked his silkhatted head into the creaking
carriage and, entering deftly, seated himself. Mr Power stepped in after carriage and, entering deftly, seated himself. Mr Power stepped in after
him, curving his height with care. him, curving his height with care.
--Come on, Simon. --Come on, Simon.
--After you, Mr Bloom said. --After you, Mr Bloom said.
Mr Dedalus covered himself quickly and got in, saying: Mr Dedalus covered himself quickly and got in, saying:
Yes, yes. Yes, yes.
--Are we all here now? Martin Cunningham asked. Come along, Bloom. --Are we all here now? Martin Cunningham asked. Come along, Bloom.
Mr Bloom entered and sat in the vacant place. He pulled the door to Mr Bloom entered and sat in the vacant place. He pulled the door to
after him and slammed it twice till it shut tight. He passed an arm after him and slammed it twice till it shut tight. He passed an arm
through the armstrap and looked seriously from the open carriagewindow at through the armstrap and looked seriously from the open carriagewindow at
the lowered blinds of the avenue. One dragged aside: an old woman peeping. the lowered blinds of the avenue. One dragged aside: an old woman peeping.
Nose whiteflattened against the pane. Thanking her stars she was passed Nose whiteflattened against the pane. Thanking her stars she was passed
over. Extraordinary the interest they take in a corpse. Glad to see us go over. Extraordinary the interest they take in a corpse. Glad to see us go
we give them such trouble coming. Job seems to suit them. Huggermugger in we give them such trouble coming. Job seems to suit them. Huggermugger in
corners. Slop about in slipperslappers for fear he'd wake. Then getting it corners. Slop about in slipperslappers for fear he'd wake. Then getting it
ready. Laying it out. Molly and Mrs Fleming making the bed. Pull it more ready. Laying it out. Molly and Mrs Fleming making the bed. Pull it more
to your side. Our windingsheet. Never know who will touch you dead. to your side. Our windingsheet. Never know who will touch you dead.
Wash and shampoo. I believe they clip the nails and the hair. Keep a bit Wash and shampoo. I believe they clip the nails and the hair. Keep a bit
in an envelope. Grows all the same after. Unclean job. in an envelope. Grows all the same after. Unclean job.
All waited. Nothing was said. Stowing in the wreaths probably. I am All waited. Nothing was said. Stowing in the wreaths probably. I am
sitting on something hard. Ah, that soap: in my hip pocket. Better shift sitting on something hard. Ah, that soap: in my hip pocket. Better shift
it out of that. Wait for an opportunity. it out of that. Wait for an opportunity.
All waited. Then wheels were heard from in front, turning: then All waited. Then wheels were heard from in front, turning: then
nearer: then horses' hoofs. A jolt. Their carriage began to move, creaking nearer: then horses' hoofs. A jolt. Their carriage began to move, creaking
and swaying. Other hoofs and creaking wheels started behind. The blinds and swaying. Other hoofs and creaking wheels started behind. The blinds
of the avenue passed and number nine with its craped knocker, door ajar. of the avenue passed and number nine with its craped knocker, door ajar.
At walking pace. At walking pace.
BLOOM: Thank you, sir. I will, sir. May I bring two men chums to witness BLOOM: Thank you, sir. I will, sir. May I bring two men chums to witness
the deed and take a snapshot? (HE HOLDS OUT AN OINTMENT JAR) Vaseline, the deed and take a snapshot? (HE HOLDS OUT AN OINTMENT JAR) Vaseline,
sir? Orangeflower ...? Lukewarm water ...? sir? Orangeflower ...? Lukewarm water ...?
KITTY: (FROM THE SOFA) Tell us, Florry. Tell us. What. KITTY: (FROM THE SOFA) Tell us, Florry. Tell us. What.
(FLORRY WHISPERS TO HER. WHISPERING LOVEWORDS MURMUR, LIPLAPPING LOUDLY, (FLORRY WHISPERS TO HER. WHISPERING LOVEWORDS MURMUR, LIPLAPPING LOUDLY,
POPPYSMIC PLOPSLOP.) POPPYSMIC PLOPSLOP.)
MINA KENNEDY: (HER EYES UPTURNED) O, it must be like the scent of MINA KENNEDY: (HER EYES UPTURNED) O, it must be like the scent of
geraniums and lovely peaches! O, he simply idolises every bit of her! geraniums and lovely peaches! O, he simply idolises every bit of her!
Stuck together! Covered with kisses! Stuck together! Covered with kisses!
LYDIA DOUCE: (HER MOUTH OPENING) Yumyum. O, he's carrying her round the LYDIA DOUCE: (HER MOUTH OPENING) Yumyum. O, he's carrying her round the
room doing it! Ride a cockhorse. You could hear them in Paris and New room doing it! Ride a cockhorse. You could hear them in Paris and New
York. Like mouthfuls of strawberries and cream. York. Like mouthfuls of strawberries and cream.
KITTY: (LAUGHING) Hee hee hee. KITTY: (LAUGHING) Hee hee hee.
BOYLAN'S VOICE: (SWEETLY, HOARSELY, IN THE PIT OF HIS STOMACH) Ah! BOYLAN'S VOICE: (SWEETLY, HOARSELY, IN THE PIT OF HIS STOMACH) Ah!
Gooblazqruk brukarchkrasht! Gooblazqruk brukarchkrasht!
MARION'S VOICE: (HOARSELY, SWEETLY, RISING TO HER THROAT) O! MARION'S VOICE: (HOARSELY, SWEETLY, RISING TO HER THROAT) O!
Weeshwashtkissinapooisthnapoohuck? Weeshwashtkissinapooisthnapoohuck?
BLOOM: (HIS EYES WILDLY DILATED, CLASPS HIMSELF) Show! Hide! Show! Plough BLOOM: (HIS EYES WILDLY DILATED, CLASPS HIMSELF) Show! Hide! Show! Plough
her! More! Shoot! her! More! Shoot!
BELLA, ZOE, FLORRY, KITTY: Ho ho! Ha ha! Hee hee! BELLA, ZOE, FLORRY, KITTY: Ho ho! Ha ha! Hee hee!
LYNCH: (POINTS) The mirror up to nature. (HE LAUGHS) Hu hu hu hu hu! LYNCH: (POINTS) The mirror up to nature. (HE LAUGHS) Hu hu hu hu hu!
(STEPHEN AND BLOOM GAZE IN THE MIRROR. THE FACE OF WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE, (STEPHEN AND BLOOM GAZE IN THE MIRROR. THE FACE OF WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE,
BEARDLESS, APPEARS THERE, RIGID IN FACIAL PARALYSIS, CROWNED BY THE BEARDLESS, APPEARS THERE, RIGID IN FACIAL PARALYSIS, CROWNED BY THE
REFLECTION OF THE REINDEER ANTLERED HATRACK IN THE HALL.) REFLECTION OF THE REINDEER ANTLERED HATRACK IN THE HALL.)
SHAKESPEARE: (IN DIGNIFIED VENTRILOQUY) 'Tis the loud laugh bespeaks the SHAKESPEARE: (IN DIGNIFIED VENTRILOQUY) 'Tis the loud laugh bespeaks the
vacant mind. (TO BLOOM) Thou thoughtest as how thou wastest invisible. vacant mind. (TO BLOOM) Thou thoughtest as how thou wastest invisible.
Gaze. (HE CROWS WITH A BLACK CAPON'S LAUGH) Iagogo! How my Oldfellow Gaze. (HE CROWS WITH A BLACK CAPON'S LAUGH) Iagogo! How my Oldfellow
My flesh hears him: creeping, hears. My flesh hears him: creeping, hears.
    IF THOU DIDST EVER ...     IF THOU DIDST EVER ...
--What is a ghost? Stephen said with tingling energy. One who has faded --What is a ghost? Stephen said with tingling energy. One who has faded
into impalpability through death, through absence, through change of into impalpability through death, through absence, through change of
manners. Elizabethan London lay as far from Stratford as corrupt Paris manners. Elizabethan London lay as far from Stratford as corrupt Paris
lies from virgin Dublin. Who is the ghost from LIMBO PATRUM, returning to lies from virgin Dublin. Who is the ghost from LIMBO PATRUM, returning to
the world that has forgotten him? Who is King Hamlet? the world that has forgotten him? Who is King Hamlet?
John Eglinton shifted his spare body, leaning back to judge. John Eglinton shifted his spare body, leaning back to judge.
Lifted. Lifted.
--It is this hour of a day in mid June, Stephen said, begging with a --It is this hour of a day in mid June, Stephen said, begging with a
swift glance their hearing. The flag is up on the playhouse by the swift glance their hearing. The flag is up on the playhouse by the
bankside. The bear Sackerson growls in the pit near it, Paris garden. bankside. The bear Sackerson growls in the pit near it, Paris garden.
Canvasclimbers who sailed with Drake chew their sausages among the Canvasclimbers who sailed with Drake chew their sausages among the
groundlings. groundlings.
Local colour. Work in all you know. Make them accomplices. Local colour. Work in all you know. Make them accomplices.
--Shakespeare has left the huguenot's house in Silver street and walks by --Shakespeare has left the huguenot's house in Silver street and walks by
the swanmews along the riverbank. But he does not stay to feed the pen the swanmews along the riverbank. But he does not stay to feed the pen
chivying her game of cygnets towards the rushes. The swan of Avon has chivying her game of cygnets towards the rushes. The swan of Avon has
other thoughts. other thoughts.
Composition of place. Ignatius Loyola, make haste to help me! Composition of place. Ignatius Loyola, make haste to help me!
--The play begins. A player comes on under the shadow, made up in the --The play begins. A player comes on under the shadow, made up in the
castoff mail of a court buck, a wellset man with a bass voice. It is the castoff mail of a court buck, a wellset man with a bass voice. It is the
ghost, the king, a king and no king, and the player is Shakespeare who ghost, the king, a king and no king, and the player is Shakespeare who
has studied HAMLET all the years of his life which were not vanity in has studied HAMLET all the years of his life which were not vanity in
order to play the part of the spectre. He speaks the words to Burbage, order to play the part of the spectre. He speaks the words to Burbage,
the young player who stands before him beyond the rack of cerecloth, the young player who stands before him beyond the rack of cerecloth,
calling him by a name: calling him by a name:
    HAMLET, I AM THY FATHER'S SPIRIT,     HAMLET, I AM THY FATHER'S SPIRIT,
bidding him list. To a son he speaks, the son of his soul, the prince, bidding him list. To a son he speaks, the son of his soul, the prince,
young Hamlet and to the son of his body, Hamnet Shakespeare, who has died young Hamlet and to the son of his body, Hamnet Shakespeare, who has died
in Stratford that his namesake may live for ever. in Stratford that his namesake may live for ever.
Is it possible that that player Shakespeare, a ghost by absence, and in Is it possible that that player Shakespeare, a ghost by absence, and in
the vesture of buried Denmark, a ghost by death, speaking his own words the vesture of buried Denmark, a ghost by death, speaking his own words
to his own son's name (had Hamnet Shakespeare lived he would have been to his own son's name (had Hamnet Shakespeare lived he would have been
prince Hamlet's twin), is it possible, I want to know, or probable that prince Hamlet's twin), is it possible, I want to know, or probable that
he did not draw or foresee the logical conclusion of those premises: you he did not draw or foresee the logical conclusion of those premises: you
are the dispossessed son: I am the murdered father: your mother is the are the dispossessed son: I am the murdered father: your mother is the
guilty queen, Ann Shakespeare, born Hathaway? guilty queen, Ann Shakespeare, born Hathaway?
--But this prying into the family life of a great man, Russell began --But this prying into the family life of a great man, Russell began
impatiently. impatiently.
Art thou there, truepenny? Art thou there, truepenny?
--Interesting only to the parish clerk. I mean, we have the plays. I mean --Interesting only to the parish clerk. I mean, we have the plays. I mean
when we read the poetry of KING LEAR what is it to us how the poet lived? when we read the poetry of KING LEAR what is it to us how the poet lived?
As for living our servants can do that for us, Villiers de l'Isle has As for living our servants can do that for us, Villiers de l'Isle has
said. Peeping and prying into greenroom gossip of the day, the poet's said. Peeping and prying into greenroom gossip of the day, the poet's
drinking, the poet's debts. We have KING LEAR: and it is immortal. drinking, the poet's debts. We have KING LEAR: and it is immortal.
Mr Best's face, appealed to, agreed. Mr Best's face, appealed to, agreed.
    FLOW OVER THEM WITH YOUR WAVES AND WITH YOUR WATERS, MANANAAN,     FLOW OVER THEM WITH YOUR WAVES AND WITH YOUR WATERS, MANANAAN,
    MANANAAN MACLIR ...     MANANAAN MACLIR ...
How now, sirrah, that pound he lent you when you were hungry? How now, sirrah, that pound he lent you when you were hungry?
Marry, I wanted it. Marry, I wanted it.
Take thou this noble. Take thou this noble.
Go to! You spent most of it in Georgina Johnson's bed, clergyman's Go to! You spent most of it in Georgina Johnson's bed, clergyman's
daughter. Agenbite of inwit. daughter. Agenbite of inwit.
Do you intend to pay it back? Do you intend to pay it back?
O, yes. O, yes.
When? Now? When? Now?
Well ... No. Well ... No.
When, then? When, then?
I paid my way. I paid my way. I paid my way. I paid my way.
Steady on. He's from beyant Boyne water. The northeast corner. You owe Steady on. He's from beyant Boyne water. The northeast corner. You owe
it. it.
Wait. Five months. Molecules all change. I am other I now. Other I got Wait. Five months. Molecules all change. I am other I now. Other I got
pound. pound.
Buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Buzz.
But I, entelechy, form of forms, am I by memory because under But I, entelechy, form of forms, am I by memory because under
everchanging forms. everchanging forms.
I that sinned and prayed and fasted. I that sinned and prayed and fasted.
A child Conmee saved from pandies. A child Conmee saved from pandies.
I, I and I. I. I, I and I. I.
A.E.I.O.U. A.E.I.O.U.
--Do you mean to fly in the face of the tradition of three centuries? --Do you mean to fly in the face of the tradition of three centuries?
John Eglinton's carping voice asked. Her ghost at least has been laid for John Eglinton's carping voice asked. Her ghost at least has been laid for
ever. She died, for literature at least, before she was born. ever. She died, for literature at least, before she was born.
--She died, Stephen retorted, sixtyseven years after she was born. She --She died, Stephen retorted, sixtyseven years after she was born. She
saw him into and out of the world. She took his first embraces. She bore saw him into and out of the world. She took his first embraces. She bore
his children and she laid pennies on his eyes to keep his eyelids closed his children and she laid pennies on his eyes to keep his eyelids closed
when he lay on his deathbed. when he lay on his deathbed.
Mother's deathbed. Candle. The sheeted mirror. Who brought me into this Mother's deathbed. Candle. The sheeted mirror. Who brought me into this
world lies there, bronzelidded, under few cheap flowers. LILIATA world lies there, bronzelidded, under few cheap flowers. LILIATA
RUTILANTIUM. RUTILANTIUM.
I wept alone. I wept alone.
John Eglinton looked in the tangled glowworm of his lamp. John Eglinton looked in the tangled glowworm of his lamp.
--The world believes that Shakespeare made a mistake, he said, and got --The world believes that Shakespeare made a mistake, he said, and got
out of it as quickly and as best he could. out of it as quickly and as best he could.
--Bosh! Stephen said rudely. A man of genius makes no mistakes. His --Bosh! Stephen said rudely. A man of genius makes no mistakes. His
errors are volitional and are the portals of discovery. errors are volitional and are the portals of discovery.
Portals of discovery opened to let in the quaker librarian, Portals of discovery opened to let in the quaker librarian,
softcreakfooted, bald, eared and assiduous. softcreakfooted, bald, eared and assiduous.
--A shrew, John Eglinton said shrewdly, is not a useful portal of --A shrew, John Eglinton said shrewdly, is not a useful portal of
discovery, one should imagine. What useful discovery did Socrates learn discovery, one should imagine. What useful discovery did Socrates learn
from Xanthippe? from Xanthippe?
--Dialectic, Stephen answered: and from his mother how to bring thoughts --Dialectic, Stephen answered: and from his mother how to bring thoughts
into the world. What he learnt from his other wife Myrto (ABSIT NOMEN!), into the world. What he learnt from his other wife Myrto (ABSIT NOMEN!),
Socratididion's Epipsychidion, no man, not a woman, will ever know. But Socratididion's Epipsychidion, no man, not a woman, will ever know. But
neither the midwife's lore nor the caudlelectures saved him from the neither the midwife's lore nor the caudlelectures saved him from the
archons of Sinn Fein and their naggin of hemlock. archons of Sinn Fein and their naggin of hemlock.
--But Ann Hathaway? Mr Best's quiet voice said forgetfully. Yes, we seem --But Ann Hathaway? Mr Best's quiet voice said forgetfully. Yes, we seem
to be forgetting her as Shakespeare himself forgot her. to be forgetting her as Shakespeare himself forgot her.
His look went from brooder's beard to carper's skull, to remind, to chide His look went from brooder's beard to carper's skull, to remind, to chide
them not unkindly, then to the baldpink lollard costard, guiltless though them not unkindly, then to the baldpink lollard costard, guiltless though
maligned. maligned.
--He had a good groatsworth of wit, Stephen said, and no truant memory. --He had a good groatsworth of wit, Stephen said, and no truant memory.
He carried a memory in his wallet as he trudged to Romeville whistling He carried a memory in his wallet as he trudged to Romeville whistling
THE GIRL I LEFT BEHIND ME. If the earthquake did not time it we should THE GIRL I LEFT BEHIND ME. If the earthquake did not time it we should
know where to place poor Wat, sitting in his form, the cry of hounds, the know where to place poor Wat, sitting in his form, the cry of hounds, the
studded bridle and her blue windows. That memory, VENUS AND ADONIS, lay studded bridle and her blue windows. That memory, VENUS AND ADONIS, lay
in the bedchamber of every light-of-love in London. Is Katharine the in the bedchamber of every light-of-love in London. Is Katharine the
shrew illfavoured? Hortensio calls her young and beautiful. Do you think shrew illfavoured? Hortensio calls her young and beautiful. Do you think
the writer of ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA, a passionate pilgrim, had his eyes in the writer of ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA, a passionate pilgrim, had his eyes in
the back of his head that he chose the ugliest doxy in all Warwickshire the back of his head that he chose the ugliest doxy in all Warwickshire
to lie withal? Good: he left her and gained the world of men. But his to lie withal? Good: he left her and gained the world of men. But his
boywomen are the women of a boy. Their life, thought, speech are lent boywomen are the women of a boy. Their life, thought, speech are lent
them by males. He chose badly? He was chosen, it seems to me. If others them by males. He chose badly? He was chosen, it seems to me. If others
have their will Ann hath a way. By cock, she was to blame. She put the have their will Ann hath a way. By cock, she was to blame. She put the
comether on him, sweet and twentysix. The greyeyed goddess who bends over comether on him, sweet and twentysix. The greyeyed goddess who bends over
the boy Adonis, stooping to conquer, as prologue to the swelling act, is the boy Adonis, stooping to conquer, as prologue to the swelling act, is
a boldfaced Stratford wench who tumbles in a cornfield a lover younger a boldfaced Stratford wench who tumbles in a cornfield a lover younger
than herself. than herself.
And my turn? When? And my turn? When?
Come! Come!
--Ryefield, Mr Best said brightly, gladly, raising his new book, gladly, --Ryefield, Mr Best said brightly, gladly, raising his new book, gladly,
brightly. brightly.
He murmured then with blond delight for all: He murmured then with blond delight for all:
    BETWEEN THE ACRES OF THE RYE     BETWEEN THE ACRES OF THE RYE
    THESE PRETTY COUNTRYFOLK WOULD LIE.     THESE PRETTY COUNTRYFOLK WOULD LIE.
Paris: the wellpleased pleaser. Paris: the wellpleased pleaser.
A tall figure in bearded homespun rose from shadow and unveiled its A tall figure in bearded homespun rose from shadow and unveiled its
PER VIAS RECTAS! PER VIAS RECTAS!
(A YOKE OF BUCKETS LEOPARDS ALL OVER HIM AND HIS REARING NAG A TORRENT OF (A YOKE OF BUCKETS LEOPARDS ALL OVER HIM AND HIS REARING NAG A TORRENT OF
MUTTON BROTH WITH DANCING COINS OF CARROTS, BARLEY, ONIONS, TURNIPS, MUTTON BROTH WITH DANCING COINS OF CARROTS, BARLEY, ONIONS, TURNIPS,
POTATOES.) POTATOES.)
THE GREEN LODGES: Soft day, sir John! Soft day, your honour! THE GREEN LODGES: Soft day, sir John! Soft day, your honour!
(PRIVATE CARR, PRIVATE COMPTON AND CISSY CAFFREY PASS BENEATH THE (PRIVATE CARR, PRIVATE COMPTON AND CISSY CAFFREY PASS BENEATH THE
cheeks. Till then they had only exchanged glances of the most casual but cheeks. Till then they had only exchanged glances of the most casual but
now under the brim of her new hat she ventured a look at him and the face now under the brim of her new hat she ventured a look at him and the face
that met her gaze there in the twilight, wan and strangely drawn, seemed that met her gaze there in the twilight, wan and strangely drawn, seemed
to her the saddest she had ever seen. to her the saddest she had ever seen.
Through the open window of the church the fragrant incense was wafted and Through the open window of the church the fragrant incense was wafted and
with it the fragrant names of her who was conceived without stain of with it the fragrant names of her who was conceived without stain of
original sin, spiritual vessel, pray for us, honourable vessel, pray for original sin, spiritual vessel, pray for us, honourable vessel, pray for
us, vessel of singular devotion, pray for us, mystical rose. And careworn us, vessel of singular devotion, pray for us, mystical rose. And careworn
hearts were there and toilers for their daily bread and many who had erred hearts were there and toilers for their daily bread and many who had erred
and wandered, their eyes wet with contrition but for all that bright with and wandered, their eyes wet with contrition but for all that bright with
hope for the reverend father Father Hughes had told them what the great hope for the reverend father Father Hughes had told them what the great
saint Bernard said in his famous prayer of Mary, the most pious Virgin's saint Bernard said in his famous prayer of Mary, the most pious Virgin's
intercessory power that it was not recorded in any age that those who intercessory power that it was not recorded in any age that those who
implored her powerful protection were ever abandoned by her. implored her powerful protection were ever abandoned by her.
The twins were now playing again right merrily for the troubles of The twins were now playing again right merrily for the troubles of
childhood are but as fleeting summer showers. Cissy Caffrey played with childhood are but as fleeting summer showers. Cissy Caffrey played with
baby Boardman till he crowed with glee, clapping baby hands in air. Peep baby Boardman till he crowed with glee, clapping baby hands in air. Peep
she cried behind the hood of the pushcar and Edy asked where was Cissy she cried behind the hood of the pushcar and Edy asked where was Cissy
gone and then Cissy popped up her head and cried ah! and, my word, gone and then Cissy popped up her head and cried ah! and, my word,
didn't the little chap enjoy that! And then she told him to say papa. didn't the little chap enjoy that! And then she told him to say papa.
--Say papa, baby. Say pa pa pa pa pa pa pa. --Say papa, baby. Say pa pa pa pa pa pa pa.
And baby did his level best to say it for he was very intelligent for And baby did his level best to say it for he was very intelligent for
eleven months everyone said and big for his age and the picture of health, eleven months everyone said and big for his age and the picture of health,
a perfect little bunch of love, and he would certainly turn out to be a perfect little bunch of love, and he would certainly turn out to be
something great, they said. something great, they said.
--Haja ja ja haja. --Haja ja ja haja.
Cissy wiped his little mouth with the dribbling bib and wanted him to sit Cissy wiped his little mouth with the dribbling bib and wanted him to sit
up properly and say pa pa pa but when she undid the strap she cried out, up properly and say pa pa pa but when she undid the strap she cried out,
holy saint Denis, that he was possing wet and to double the half blanket holy saint Denis, that he was possing wet and to double the half blanket
the other way under him. Of course his infant majesty was most the other way under him. Of course his infant majesty was most
obstreperous at such toilet formalities and he let everyone know it: obstreperous at such toilet formalities and he let everyone know it:
--Habaa baaaahabaaa baaaa. --Habaa baaaahabaaa baaaa.
And two great big lovely big tears coursing down his cheeks. It was all no And two great big lovely big tears coursing down his cheeks. It was all no
use soothering him with no, nono, baby, no and telling him about the use soothering him with no, nono, baby, no and telling him about the
geegee and where was the puffpuff but Ciss, always readywitted, gave him geegee and where was the puffpuff but Ciss, always readywitted, gave him
in his mouth the teat of the suckingbottle and the young heathen was in his mouth the teat of the suckingbottle and the young heathen was
quickly appeased. quickly appeased.
Gerty wished to goodness they would take their squalling baby home out of Gerty wished to goodness they would take their squalling baby home out of
that and not get on her nerves, no hour to be out, and the little brats that and not get on her nerves, no hour to be out, and the little brats
of twins. She gazed out towards the distant sea. It was like the paintings of twins. She gazed out towards the distant sea. It was like the paintings
that man used to do on the pavement with all the coloured chalks and such that man used to do on the pavement with all the coloured chalks and such
a pity too leaving them there to be all blotted out, the evening and the a pity too leaving them there to be all blotted out, the evening and the
clouds coming out and the Bailey light on Howth and to hear the music like clouds coming out and the Bailey light on Howth and to hear the music like
that and the perfume of those incense they burned in the church like a that and the perfume of those incense they burned in the church like a
kind of waft. And while she gazed her heart went pitapat. Yes, it was her kind of waft. And while she gazed her heart went pitapat. Yes, it was her
he was looking at, and there was meaning in his look. His eyes burned into he was looking at, and there was meaning in his look. His eyes burned into
her as though they would search her through and through, read her very her as though they would search her through and through, read her very
soul. Wonderful eyes they were, superbly expressive, but could you trust soul. Wonderful eyes they were, superbly expressive, but could you trust
them? People were so queer. She could see at once by his dark eyes and his them? People were so queer. She could see at once by his dark eyes and his
pale intellectual face that he was a foreigner, the image of the photo she pale intellectual face that he was a foreigner, the image of the photo she
had of Martin Harvey, the matinee idol, only for the moustache which she had of Martin Harvey, the matinee idol, only for the moustache which she
preferred because she wasn't stagestruck like Winny Rippingham that preferred because she wasn't stagestruck like Winny Rippingham that
wanted they two to always dress the same on account of a play but she wanted they two to always dress the same on account of a play but she
could not see whether he had an aquiline nose or a slightly RETROUSSE from could not see whether he had an aquiline nose or a slightly RETROUSSE from
where he was sitting. He was in deep mourning, she could see that, and the where he was sitting. He was in deep mourning, she could see that, and the
story of a haunting sorrow was written on his face. She would have given story of a haunting sorrow was written on his face. She would have given
worlds to know what it was. He was looking up so intently, so still, and worlds to know what it was. He was looking up so intently, so still, and
he saw her kick the ball and perhaps he could see the bright steel buckles he saw her kick the ball and perhaps he could see the bright steel buckles
of her shoes if she swung them like that thoughtfully with the toes down. of her shoes if she swung them like that thoughtfully with the toes down.
She was glad that something told her to put on the transparent stockings She was glad that something told her to put on the transparent stockings
thinking Reggy Wylie might be out but that was far away. Here was that of thinking Reggy Wylie might be out but that was far away. Here was that of
which she had so often dreamed. It was he who mattered and there was joy which she had so often dreamed. It was he who mattered and there was joy
on her face because she wanted him because she felt instinctively that he on her face because she wanted him because she felt instinctively that he
was like no-one else. The very heart of the girlwoman went out to him, her was like no-one else. The very heart of the girlwoman went out to him, her
dreamhusband, because she knew on the instant it was him. If he had dreamhusband, because she knew on the instant it was him. If he had
suffered, more sinned against than sinning, or even, even, if he had been suffered, more sinned against than sinning, or even, even, if he had been
himself a sinner, a wicked man, she cared not. Even if he was a protestant himself a sinner, a wicked man, she cared not. Even if he was a protestant
or methodist she could convert him easily if he truly loved her. There or methodist she could convert him easily if he truly loved her. There
were wounds that wanted healing with heartbalm. She was a womanly woman were wounds that wanted healing with heartbalm. She was a womanly woman
not like other flighty girls unfeminine he had known, those cyclists not like other flighty girls unfeminine he had known, those cyclists
showing off what they hadn't got and she just yearned to know all, to showing off what they hadn't got and she just yearned to know all, to
forgive all if she could make him fall in love with her, make him forget forgive all if she could make him fall in love with her, make him forget
the memory of the past. Then mayhap he would embrace her gently, like a the memory of the past. Then mayhap he would embrace her gently, like a
real man, crushing her soft body to him, and love her, his ownest girlie, real man, crushing her soft body to him, and love her, his ownest girlie,
for herself alone. for herself alone.
Refuge of sinners. Comfortress of the afflicted. ORA PRO NOBIS. Well Refuge of sinners. Comfortress of the afflicted. ORA PRO NOBIS. Well
has it been said that whosoever prays to her with faith and constancy can has it been said that whosoever prays to her with faith and constancy can
never be lost or cast away: and fitly is she too a haven of refuge for the never be lost or cast away: and fitly is she too a haven of refuge for the
afflicted because of the seven dolours which transpierced her own heart. afflicted because of the seven dolours which transpierced her own heart.
Gerty could picture the whole scene in the church, the stained glass Gerty could picture the whole scene in the church, the stained glass
windows lighted up, the candles, the flowers and the blue banners of the windows lighted up, the candles, the flowers and the blue banners of the
blessed Virgin's sodality and Father Conroy was helping Canon O'Hanlon at blessed Virgin's sodality and Father Conroy was helping Canon O'Hanlon at
the altar, carrying things in and out with his eyes cast down. He looked the altar, carrying things in and out with his eyes cast down. He looked
almost a saint and his confessionbox was so quiet and clean and dark and almost a saint and his confessionbox was so quiet and clean and dark and
his hands were just like white wax and if ever she became a Dominican nun his hands were just like white wax and if ever she became a Dominican nun
in their white habit perhaps he might come to the convent for the novena in their white habit perhaps he might come to the convent for the novena
of Saint Dominic. He told her that time when she told him about that in of Saint Dominic. He told her that time when she told him about that in
confession, crimsoning up to the roots of her hair for fear he could see, confession, crimsoning up to the roots of her hair for fear he could see,
not to be troubled because that was only the voice of nature and we were not to be troubled because that was only the voice of nature and we were
all subject to nature's laws, he said, in this life and that that was no all subject to nature's laws, he said, in this life and that that was no
sin because that came from the nature of woman instituted by God, he said, sin because that came from the nature of woman instituted by God, he said,
and that Our Blessed Lady herself said to the archangel Gabriel be it done and that Our Blessed Lady herself said to the archangel Gabriel be it done
unto me according to Thy Word. He was so kind and holy and often and often unto me according to Thy Word. He was so kind and holy and often and often
she thought and thought could she work a ruched teacosy with embroidered she thought and thought could she work a ruched teacosy with embroidered
floral design for him as a present or a clock but they had a clock she floral design for him as a present or a clock but they had a clock she
noticed on the mantelpiece white and gold with a canarybird that came out noticed on the mantelpiece white and gold with a canarybird that came out
of a little house to tell the time the day she went there about the of a little house to tell the time the day she went there about the
flowers for the forty hours' adoration because it was hard to know what flowers for the forty hours' adoration because it was hard to know what
sort of a present to give or perhaps an album of illuminated views of sort of a present to give or perhaps an album of illuminated views of
Dublin or some place. Dublin or some place.
The exasperating little brats of twins began to quarrel again and Jacky The exasperating little brats of twins began to quarrel again and Jacky
threw the ball out towards the sea and they both ran after it. Little threw the ball out towards the sea and they both ran after it. Little
monkeys common as ditchwater. Someone ought to take them and give them monkeys common as ditchwater. Someone ought to take them and give them
a good hiding for themselves to keep them in their places, the both of a good hiding for themselves to keep them in their places, the both of
them. And Cissy and Edy shouted after them to come back because they them. And Cissy and Edy shouted after them to come back because they
were afraid the tide might come in on them and be drowned. were afraid the tide might come in on them and be drowned.
--Jacky! Tommy! --Jacky! Tommy!
Not they! What a great notion they had! So Cissy said it was the very Not they! What a great notion they had! So Cissy said it was the very
last time she'd ever bring them out. She jumped up and called them and she last time she'd ever bring them out. She jumped up and called them and she
ran down the slope past him, tossing her hair behind her which had a good ran down the slope past him, tossing her hair behind her which had a good
enough colour if there had been more of it but with all the thingamerry enough colour if there had been more of it but with all the thingamerry
she was always rubbing into it she couldn't get it to grow long because it she was always rubbing into it she couldn't get it to grow long because it
wasn't natural so she could just go and throw her hat at it. She ran wasn't natural so she could just go and throw her hat at it. She ran
with long gandery strides it was a wonder she didn't rip up her skirt at with long gandery strides it was a wonder she didn't rip up her skirt at
the side that was too tight on her because there was a lot of the tomboy the side that was too tight on her because there was a lot of the tomboy
about Cissy Caffrey and she was a forward piece whenever she thought about Cissy Caffrey and she was a forward piece whenever she thought
she had a good opportunity to show and just because she was a good runner she had a good opportunity to show and just because she was a good runner
she ran like that so that he could see all the end of her petticoat she ran like that so that he could see all the end of her petticoat
running and her skinny shanks up as far as possible. It would have running and her skinny shanks up as far as possible. It would have
served her just right if she had tripped up over something accidentally served her just right if she had tripped up over something accidentally
on purpose with her high crooked French heels on her to make her look on purpose with her high crooked French heels on her to make her look
tall and got a fine tumble. TABLEAU! That would have been a very charming tall and got a fine tumble. TABLEAU! That would have been a very charming
expose for a gentleman like that to witness. expose for a gentleman like that to witness.
Queen of angels, queen of patriarchs, queen of prophets, of all saints, Queen of angels, queen of patriarchs, queen of prophets, of all saints,
they prayed, queen of the most holy rosary and then Father Conroy handed they prayed, queen of the most holy rosary and then Father Conroy handed
the thurible to Canon O'Hanlon and he put in the incense and censed the the thurible to Canon O'Hanlon and he put in the incense and censed the
Blessed Sacrament and Cissy Caffrey caught the two twins and she was Blessed Sacrament and Cissy Caffrey caught the two twins and she was
itching to give them a ringing good clip on the ear but she didn't because itching to give them a ringing good clip on the ear but she didn't because
she thought he might be watching but she never made a bigger mistake in she thought he might be watching but she never made a bigger mistake in
all her life because Gerty could see without looking that he never all her life because Gerty could see without looking that he never
took his eyes off of her and then Canon O'Hanlon handed the thurible took his eyes off of her and then Canon O'Hanlon handed the thurible
back to Father Conroy and knelt down looking up at the Blessed Sacrament back to Father Conroy and knelt down looking up at the Blessed Sacrament
and the choir began to sing the TANTUM ERGO and she just swung her foot and the choir began to sing the TANTUM ERGO and she just swung her foot
in and out in time as the music rose and fell to the TANTUMER GOSA in and out in time as the music rose and fell to the TANTUMER GOSA
CRAMEN TUM. Three and eleven she paid for those stockings in Sparrow's CRAMEN TUM. Three and eleven she paid for those stockings in Sparrow's
of George's street on the Tuesday, no the Monday before Easter and there of George's street on the Tuesday, no the Monday before Easter and there
wasn't a brack on them and that was what he was looking at, transparent, wasn't a brack on them and that was what he was looking at, transparent,
and not at her insignificant ones that had neither shape nor form and not at her insignificant ones that had neither shape nor form
(the cheek of her!) because he had eyes in his head to see the difference (the cheek of her!) because he had eyes in his head to see the difference
for himself. for himself.
Cissy came up along the strand with the two twins and their ball with Cissy came up along the strand with the two twins and their ball with
her hat anyhow on her to one side after her run and she did look a streel her hat anyhow on her to one side after her run and she did look a streel
tugging the two kids along with the flimsy blouse she bought only a tugging the two kids along with the flimsy blouse she bought only a
fortnight before like a rag on her back and a bit of her petticoat hanging fortnight before like a rag on her back and a bit of her petticoat hanging
like a caricature. Gerty just took off her hat for a moment to settle her like a caricature. Gerty just took off her hat for a moment to settle her
hair and a prettier, a daintier head of nutbrown tresses was never seen on hair and a prettier, a daintier head of nutbrown tresses was never seen on
a girl's shoulders--a radiant little vision, in sooth, almost maddening in a girl's shoulders--a radiant little vision, in sooth, almost maddening in
its sweetness. You would have to travel many a long mile before you found its sweetness. You would have to travel many a long mile before you found
a head of hair the like of that. She could almost see the swift answering a head of hair the like of that. She could almost see the swift answering
flash of admiration in his eyes that set her tingling in every nerve. flash of admiration in his eyes that set her tingling in every nerve.
She put on her hat so that she could see from underneath the brim and She put on her hat so that she could see from underneath the brim and
swung her buckled shoe faster for her breath caught as she caught the swung her buckled shoe faster for her breath caught as she caught the
expression in his eyes. He was eying her as a snake eyes its prey. Her expression in his eyes. He was eying her as a snake eyes its prey. Her
woman's instinct told her that she had raised the devil in him and at the woman's instinct told her that she had raised the devil in him and at the
thought a burning scarlet swept from throat to brow till the lovely colour thought a burning scarlet swept from throat to brow till the lovely colour
of her face became a glorious rose. of her face became a glorious rose.
Edy Boardman was noticing it too because she was squinting at Gerty, Edy Boardman was noticing it too because she was squinting at Gerty,
half smiling, with her specs like an old maid, pretending to nurse the half smiling, with her specs like an old maid, pretending to nurse the
baby. Irritable little gnat she was and always would be and that was why baby. Irritable little gnat she was and always would be and that was why
no-one could get on with her poking her nose into what was no concern of no-one could get on with her poking her nose into what was no concern of
hers. And she said to Gerty: hers. And she said to Gerty:
--A penny for your thoughts. --A penny for your thoughts.
--What? replied Gerty with a smile reinforced by the whitest of teeth. --What? replied Gerty with a smile reinforced by the whitest of teeth.
I was only wondering was it late. I was only wondering was it late.
Because she wished to goodness they'd take the snottynosed twins and their Because she wished to goodness they'd take the snottynosed twins and their
babby home to the mischief out of that so that was why she just gave a babby home to the mischief out of that so that was why she just gave a
gentle hint about its being late. And when Cissy came up Edy asked her the gentle hint about its being late. And when Cissy came up Edy asked her the
time and Miss Cissy, as glib as you like, said it was half past kissing time and Miss Cissy, as glib as you like, said it was half past kissing
time, time to kiss again. But Edy wanted to know because they were told to time, time to kiss again. But Edy wanted to know because they were told to
be in early. be in early.
--Wait, said Cissy, I'll run ask my uncle Peter over there what's the time --Wait, said Cissy, I'll run ask my uncle Peter over there what's the time
by his conundrum. by his conundrum.
So over she went and when he saw her coming she could see him take his So over she went and when he saw her coming she could see him take his
hand out of his pocket, getting nervous, and beginning to play with his hand out of his pocket, getting nervous, and beginning to play with his
watchchain, looking up at the church. Passionate nature though he was watchchain, looking up at the church. Passionate nature though he was
Gerty could see that he had enormous control over himself. One moment he Gerty could see that he had enormous control over himself. One moment he
had been there, fascinated by a loveliness that made him gaze, and the had been there, fascinated by a loveliness that made him gaze, and the
next moment it was the quiet gravefaced gentleman, selfcontrol expressed next moment it was the quiet gravefaced gentleman, selfcontrol expressed
in every line of his distinguishedlooking figure. in every line of his distinguishedlooking figure.
Cissy said to excuse her would he mind please telling her what was the Cissy said to excuse her would he mind please telling her what was the
right time and Gerty could see him taking out his watch, listening to it right time and Gerty could see him taking out his watch, listening to it
and looking up and clearing his throat and he said he was very sorry his and looking up and clearing his throat and he said he was very sorry his
watch was stopped but he thought it must be after eight because the sun watch was stopped but he thought it must be after eight because the sun
was set. His voice had a cultured ring in it and though he spoke in was set. His voice had a cultured ring in it and though he spoke in
measured accents there was a suspicion of a quiver in the mellow tones. measured accents there was a suspicion of a quiver in the mellow tones.
Cissy said thanks and came back with her tongue out and said uncle said Cissy said thanks and came back with her tongue out and said uncle said
his waterworks were out of order. his waterworks were out of order.
Then they sang the second verse of the TANTUM ERGO and Canon Then they sang the second verse of the TANTUM ERGO and Canon
O'Hanlon got up again and censed the Blessed Sacrament and knelt down and O'Hanlon got up again and censed the Blessed Sacrament and knelt down and
he told Father Conroy that one of the candles was just going to set fire he told Father Conroy that one of the candles was just going to set fire
to the flowers and Father Conroy got up and settled it all right and she to the flowers and Father Conroy got up and settled it all right and she
could see the gentleman winding his watch and listening to the works and could see the gentleman winding his watch and listening to the works and
she swung her leg more in and out in time. It was getting darker but he she swung her leg more in and out in time. It was getting darker but he
could see and he was looking all the time that he was winding the watch or could see and he was looking all the time that he was winding the watch or
whatever he was doing to it and then he put it back and put his hands back whatever he was doing to it and then he put it back and put his hands back
into his pockets. She felt a kind of a sensation rushing all over her and into his pockets. She felt a kind of a sensation rushing all over her and
she knew by the feel of her scalp and that irritation against her stays she knew by the feel of her scalp and that irritation against her stays
that that thing must be coming on because the last time too was when she that that thing must be coming on because the last time too was when she
clipped her hair on account of the moon. His dark eyes fixed themselves clipped her hair on account of the moon. His dark eyes fixed themselves
on her again drinking in her every contour, literally worshipping at her on her again drinking in her every contour, literally worshipping at her
shrine. If ever there was undisguised admiration in a man's passionate shrine. If ever there was undisguised admiration in a man's passionate
gaze it was there plain to be seen on that man's face. It is for you, gaze it was there plain to be seen on that man's face. It is for you,
Gertrude MacDowell, and you know it. Gertrude MacDowell, and you know it.
Edy began to get ready to go and it was high time for her and Gerty Edy began to get ready to go and it was high time for her and Gerty
by for her, one by one, and but for that one shortcoming she knew she by for her, one by one, and but for that one shortcoming she knew she
need fear no competition and that was an accident coming down Dalkey need fear no competition and that was an accident coming down Dalkey
hill and she always tried to conceal it. But it must end, she felt. hill and she always tried to conceal it. But it must end, she felt.
If she saw that magic lure in his eyes there would be no holding If she saw that magic lure in his eyes there would be no holding
back for her. Love laughs at locksmiths. She would make the great back for her. Love laughs at locksmiths. She would make the great
sacrifice. Her every effort would be to share his thoughts. Dearer than sacrifice. Her every effort would be to share his thoughts. Dearer than
the whole world would she be to him and gild his days with happiness. the whole world would she be to him and gild his days with happiness.
There was the allimportant question and she was dying to know was he a There was the allimportant question and she was dying to know was he a
married man or a widower who had lost his wife or some tragedy like the married man or a widower who had lost his wife or some tragedy like the
nobleman with the foreign name from the land of song had to have her put nobleman with the foreign name from the land of song had to have her put
into a madhouse, cruel only to be kind. But even if--what then? Would it into a madhouse, cruel only to be kind. But even if--what then? Would it
make a very great difference? From everything in the least indelicate her make a very great difference? From everything in the least indelicate her
finebred nature instinctively recoiled. She loathed that sort of person, finebred nature instinctively recoiled. She loathed that sort of person,
the fallen women off the accommodation walk beside the Dodder that went the fallen women off the accommodation walk beside the Dodder that went
with the soldiers and coarse men with no respect for a girl's honour, with the soldiers and coarse men with no respect for a girl's honour,
degrading the sex and being taken up to the police station. No, no: not degrading the sex and being taken up to the police station. No, no: not
that. They would be just good friends like a big brother and sister that. They would be just good friends like a big brother and sister
without all that other in spite of the conventions of Society with a big without all that other in spite of the conventions of Society with a big
ess. Perhaps it was an old flame he was in mourning for from the days ess. Perhaps it was an old flame he was in mourning for from the days
beyond recall. She thought she understood. She would try to understand beyond recall. She thought she understood. She would try to understand
him because men were so different. The old love was waiting, waiting him because men were so different. The old love was waiting, waiting
with little white hands stretched out, with blue appealing eyes. Heart with little white hands stretched out, with blue appealing eyes. Heart
of mine! She would follow, her dream of love, the dictates of her heart of mine! She would follow, her dream of love, the dictates of her heart
that told her he was her all in all, the only man in all the world that told her he was her all in all, the only man in all the world
for her for love was the master guide. Nothing else mattered. Come what for her for love was the master guide. Nothing else mattered. Come what
might she would be wild, untrammelled, free. might she would be wild, untrammelled, free.
Canon O'Hanlon put the Blessed Sacrament back into the tabernacle Canon O'Hanlon put the Blessed Sacrament back into the tabernacle
and genuflected and the choir sang LAUDATE DOMINUM OMNES GENTES and and genuflected and the choir sang LAUDATE DOMINUM OMNES GENTES and
then he locked the tabernacle door because the benediction was over and then he locked the tabernacle door because the benediction was over and
Father Conroy handed him his hat to put on and crosscat Edy asked wasn't Father Conroy handed him his hat to put on and crosscat Edy asked wasn't
she coming but Jacky Caffrey called out: she coming but Jacky Caffrey called out:
--O, look, Cissy! --O, look, Cissy!
And they all looked was it sheet lightning but Tommy saw it too over And they all looked was it sheet lightning but Tommy saw it too over
the trees beside the church, blue and then green and purple. the trees beside the church, blue and then green and purple.
--It's fireworks, Cissy Caffrey said. --It's fireworks, Cissy Caffrey said.
And they all ran down the strand to see over the houses and the And they all ran down the strand to see over the houses and the
church, helterskelter, Edy with the pushcar with baby Boardman in it and church, helterskelter, Edy with the pushcar with baby Boardman in it and
Cissy holding Tommy and Jacky by the hand so they wouldn't fall running. Cissy holding Tommy and Jacky by the hand so they wouldn't fall running.
--Come on, Gerty, Cissy called. It's the bazaar fireworks. --Come on, Gerty, Cissy called. It's the bazaar fireworks.
But Gerty was adamant. She had no intention of being at their beck and But Gerty was adamant. She had no intention of being at their beck and
call. If they could run like rossies she could sit so she said she could call. If they could run like rossies she could sit so she said she could
see from where she was. The eyes that were fastened upon her set see from where she was. The eyes that were fastened upon her set
her pulses tingling. She looked at him a moment, meeting his glance, her pulses tingling. She looked at him a moment, meeting his glance,
and a light broke in upon her. Whitehot passion was in that face, passion and a light broke in upon her. Whitehot passion was in that face, passion
silent as the grave, and it had made her his. At last they were left silent as the grave, and it had made her his. At last they were left
alone without the others to pry and pass remarks and she knew he alone without the others to pry and pass remarks and she knew he
could be trusted to the death, steadfast, a sterling man, a man of could be trusted to the death, steadfast, a sterling man, a man of
inflexible honour to his fingertips. His hands and face were working inflexible honour to his fingertips. His hands and face were working
and a tremour went over her. She leaned back far to look up where and a tremour went over her. She leaned back far to look up where
the fireworks were and she caught her knee in her hands so as not the fireworks were and she caught her knee in her hands so as not
to fall back looking up and there was no-one to see only him and to fall back looking up and there was no-one to see only him and
her when she revealed all her graceful beautifully shaped legs like that, her when she revealed all her graceful beautifully shaped legs like that,
supply soft and delicately rounded, and she seemed to hear the panting supply soft and delicately rounded, and she seemed to hear the panting
of his heart, his hoarse breathing, because she knew too about the passion of his heart, his hoarse breathing, because she knew too about the passion
of men like that, hotblooded, because Bertha Supple told her once in dead of men like that, hotblooded, because Bertha Supple told her once in dead
secret and made her swear she'd never about the gentleman lodger that was secret and made her swear she'd never about the gentleman lodger that was
staying with them out of the Congested Districts Board that had pictures staying with them out of the Congested Districts Board that had pictures
cut out of papers of those skirtdancers and highkickers and she said he cut out of papers of those skirtdancers and highkickers and she said he
used to do something not very nice that you could imagine sometimes in used to do something not very nice that you could imagine sometimes in
the bed. But this was altogether different from a thing like that the bed. But this was altogether different from a thing like that
because there was all the difference because she could almost feel because there was all the difference because she could almost feel
him draw her face to his and the first quick hot touch of his him draw her face to his and the first quick hot touch of his
handsome lips. Besides there was absolution so long as you didn't handsome lips. Besides there was absolution so long as you didn't
do the other thing before being married and there ought to be do the other thing before being married and there ought to be
women priests that would understand without your telling out and women priests that would understand without your telling out and
Cissy Caffrey too sometimes had that dreamy kind of dreamy look Cissy Caffrey too sometimes had that dreamy kind of dreamy look
in her eyes so that she too, my dear, and Winny Rippingham so mad in her eyes so that she too, my dear, and Winny Rippingham so mad
about actors' photographs and besides it was on account of that other about actors' photographs and besides it was on account of that other
thing coming on the way it did. thing coming on the way it did.
And Jacky Caffrey shouted to look, there was another and she leaned back And Jacky Caffrey shouted to look, there was another and she leaned back
and the garters were blue to match on account of the transparent and they and the garters were blue to match on account of the transparent and they
all saw it and they all shouted to look, look, there it was and she leaned all saw it and they all shouted to look, look, there it was and she leaned
back ever so far to see the fireworks and something queer was flying back ever so far to see the fireworks and something queer was flying
through the air, a soft thing, to and fro, dark. And she saw a long Roman through the air, a soft thing, to and fro, dark. And she saw a long Roman
candle going up over the trees, up, up, and, in the tense hush, candle going up over the trees, up, up, and, in the tense hush,
they were all breathless with excitement as it went higher and higher they were all breathless with excitement as it went higher and higher
and she had to lean back more and more to look up after it, high, and she had to lean back more and more to look up after it, high,
high, almost out of sight, and her face was suffused with a divine, high, almost out of sight, and her face was suffused with a divine,
an entrancing blush from straining back and he could see her other an entrancing blush from straining back and he could see her other
things too, nainsook knickers, the fabric that caresses the skin, things too, nainsook knickers, the fabric that caresses the skin,
better than those other pettiwidth, the green, four and eleven, better than those other pettiwidth, the green, four and eleven,
on account of being white and she let him and she saw that he saw and then on account of being white and she let him and she saw that he saw and then
it went so high it went out of sight a moment and she was trembling in it went so high it went out of sight a moment and she was trembling in
every limb from being bent so far back that he had a full view every limb from being bent so far back that he had a full view
high up above her knee where no-one ever not even on the swing or wading high up above her knee where no-one ever not even on the swing or wading
and she wasn't ashamed and he wasn't either to look in that immodest way and she wasn't ashamed and he wasn't either to look in that immodest way
like that because he couldn't resist the sight of the wondrous revealment like that because he couldn't resist the sight of the wondrous revealment
half offered like those skirtdancers behaving so immodest before gentlemen half offered like those skirtdancers behaving so immodest before gentlemen
looking and he kept on looking, looking. She would fain have cried to him looking and he kept on looking, looking. She would fain have cried to him
chokingly, held out her snowy slender arms to him to come, to feel his chokingly, held out her snowy slender arms to him to come, to feel his
lips laid on her white brow, the cry of a young girl's love, a little lips laid on her white brow, the cry of a young girl's love, a little
strangled cry, wrung from her, that cry that has rung through the ages. strangled cry, wrung from her, that cry that has rung through the ages.
And then a rocket sprang and bang shot blind blank and O! then the Roman And then a rocket sprang and bang shot blind blank and O! then the Roman
candle burst and it was like a sigh of O! and everyone cried O! O! in candle burst and it was like a sigh of O! and everyone cried O! O! in
raptures and it gushed out of it a stream of rain gold hair threads and raptures and it gushed out of it a stream of rain gold hair threads and
they shed and ah! they were all greeny dewy stars falling with golden, they shed and ah! they were all greeny dewy stars falling with golden,
O so lovely, O, soft, sweet, soft! O so lovely, O, soft, sweet, soft!
Then all melted away dewily in the grey air: all was silent. Ah! She Then all melted away dewily in the grey air: all was silent. Ah! She
glanced at him as she bent forward quickly, a pathetic little glance of glanced at him as she bent forward quickly, a pathetic little glance of
piteous protest, of shy reproach under which he coloured like a girl piteous protest, of shy reproach under which he coloured like a girl
He was leaning back against the rock behind. Leopold Bloom (for it is he) He was leaning back against the rock behind. Leopold Bloom (for it is he)
stands silent, with bowed head before those young guileless eyes. What a stands silent, with bowed head before those young guileless eyes. What a
brute he had been! At it again? A fair unsullied soul had called to him brute he had been! At it again? A fair unsullied soul had called to him
and, wretch that he was, how had he answered? An utter cad he had been! and, wretch that he was, how had he answered? An utter cad he had been!
He of all men! But there was an infinite store of mercy in those eyes, He of all men! But there was an infinite store of mercy in those eyes,
for him too a word of pardon even though he had erred and sinned and for him too a word of pardon even though he had erred and sinned and
wandered. Should a girl tell? No, a thousand times no. That was their wandered. Should a girl tell? No, a thousand times no. That was their
secret, only theirs, alone in the hiding twilight and there was none to secret, only theirs, alone in the hiding twilight and there was none to
know or tell save the little bat that flew so softly through the evening know or tell save the little bat that flew so softly through the evening
to and fro and little bats don't tell. to and fro and little bats don't tell.
Cissy Caffrey whistled, imitating the boys in the football field to show Cissy Caffrey whistled, imitating the boys in the football field to show
what a great person she was: and then she cried: what a great person she was: and then she cried:
--Gerty! Gerty! We're going. Come on. We can see from farther up. --Gerty! Gerty! We're going. Come on. We can see from farther up.
Gerty had an idea, one of love's little ruses. She slipped a hand into Gerty had an idea, one of love's little ruses. She slipped a hand into
her kerchief pocket and took out the wadding and waved in reply of course her kerchief pocket and took out the wadding and waved in reply of course
without letting him and then slipped it back. Wonder if he's too far to. without letting him and then slipped it back. Wonder if he's too far to.
She rose. Was it goodbye? No. She had to go but they would meet again, She rose. Was it goodbye? No. She had to go but they would meet again,
there, and she would dream of that till then, tomorrow, of her dream of there, and she would dream of that till then, tomorrow, of her dream of
yester eve. She drew herself up to her full height. Their souls met in a yester eve. She drew herself up to her full height. Their souls met in a
last lingering glance and the eyes that reached her heart, full of a last lingering glance and the eyes that reached her heart, full of a
strange shining, hung enraptured on her sweet flowerlike face. She half strange shining, hung enraptured on her sweet flowerlike face. She half
smiled at him wanly, a sweet forgiving smile, a smile that verged on smiled at him wanly, a sweet forgiving smile, a smile that verged on
tears, and then they parted. tears, and then they parted.
Slowly, without looking back she went down the uneven strand to Slowly, without looking back she went down the uneven strand to
Cissy, to Edy to Jacky and Tommy Caffrey, to little baby Boardman. It was Cissy, to Edy to Jacky and Tommy Caffrey, to little baby Boardman. It was
darker now and there were stones and bits of wood on the strand and slippy darker now and there were stones and bits of wood on the strand and slippy
seaweed. She walked with a certain quiet dignity characteristic of her but seaweed. She walked with a certain quiet dignity characteristic of her but
with care and very slowly because--because Gerty MacDowell was ... with care and very slowly because--because Gerty MacDowell was ...
Tight boots? No. She's lame! O! Tight boots? No. She's lame! O!
Mr Bloom watched her as she limped away. Poor girl! That's why she's left Mr Bloom watched her as she limped away. Poor girl! That's why she's left
today, an elderly man with dundrearies, preferring through his nose a today, an elderly man with dundrearies, preferring through his nose a
request to have word of Wilhelmina, my life, as he calls her. I bade him request to have word of Wilhelmina, my life, as he calls her. I bade him
hold himself in readiness for that the event would burst anon. 'Slife, hold himself in readiness for that the event would burst anon. 'Slife,
I'll be round with you. I cannot but extol the virile potency of the old I'll be round with you. I cannot but extol the virile potency of the old
bucko that could still knock another child out of her. All fell to bucko that could still knock another child out of her. All fell to
praising of it, each after his own fashion, though the same young blade praising of it, each after his own fashion, though the same young blade
held with his former view that another than her conjugial had been the held with his former view that another than her conjugial had been the
man in the gap, a clerk in orders, a linkboy (virtuous) or an itinerant man in the gap, a clerk in orders, a linkboy (virtuous) or an itinerant
vendor of articles needed in every household. Singular, communed the vendor of articles needed in every household. Singular, communed the
guest with himself, the wonderfully unequal faculty of metempsychosis guest with himself, the wonderfully unequal faculty of metempsychosis
possessed by them, that the puerperal dormitory and the dissecting possessed by them, that the puerperal dormitory and the dissecting
theatre should be the seminaries of such frivolity, that the mere theatre should be the seminaries of such frivolity, that the mere
acquisition of academic titles should suffice to transform in a pinch of acquisition of academic titles should suffice to transform in a pinch of
time these votaries of levity into exemplary practitioners of an art time these votaries of levity into exemplary practitioners of an art
which most men anywise eminent have esteemed the noblest. But, he further which most men anywise eminent have esteemed the noblest. But, he further
added, it is mayhap to relieve the pentup feelings that in common oppress added, it is mayhap to relieve the pentup feelings that in common oppress
them for I have more than once observed that birds of a feather laugh them for I have more than once observed that birds of a feather laugh
together. together.
But with what fitness, let it be asked of the noble lord, his patron, has But with what fitness, let it be asked of the noble lord, his patron, has
this alien, whom the concession of a gracious prince has admitted to this alien, whom the concession of a gracious prince has admitted to
civic rights, constituted himself the lord paramount of our internal civic rights, constituted himself the lord paramount of our internal
polity? Where is now that gratitude which loyalty should have counselled? polity? Where is now that gratitude which loyalty should have counselled?
During the recent war whenever the enemy had a temporary advantage with During the recent war whenever the enemy had a temporary advantage with
his granados did this traitor to his kind not seize that moment to his granados did this traitor to his kind not seize that moment to
discharge his piece against the empire of which he is a tenant at will discharge his piece against the empire of which he is a tenant at will
while he trembled for the security of his four per cents? Has he while he trembled for the security of his four per cents? Has he
forgotten this as he forgets all benefits received? Or is it that from forgotten this as he forgets all benefits received? Or is it that from
being a deluder of others he has become at last his own dupe as he is, if being a deluder of others he has become at last his own dupe as he is, if
matrix, artificial insemination by means of syringes, involution of the matrix, artificial insemination by means of syringes, involution of the
womb consequent upon the menopause, the problem of the perpetration of womb consequent upon the menopause, the problem of the perpetration of
the species in the case of females impregnated by delinquent rape, that the species in the case of females impregnated by delinquent rape, that
distressing manner of delivery called by the Brandenburghers STURZGEBURT, distressing manner of delivery called by the Brandenburghers STURZGEBURT,
the recorded instances of multiseminal, twikindled and monstrous births the recorded instances of multiseminal, twikindled and monstrous births
conceived during the catamenic period or of consanguineous parents--in a conceived during the catamenic period or of consanguineous parents--in a
word all the cases of human nativity which Aristotle has classified in word all the cases of human nativity which Aristotle has classified in
his masterpiece with chromolithographic illustrations. The gravest his masterpiece with chromolithographic illustrations. The gravest
problems of obstetrics and forensic medicine were examined with as much problems of obstetrics and forensic medicine were examined with as much
animation as the most popular beliefs on the state of pregnancy such as animation as the most popular beliefs on the state of pregnancy such as
the forbidding to a gravid woman to step over a countrystile lest, by her the forbidding to a gravid woman to step over a countrystile lest, by her
movement, the navelcord should strangle her creature and the injunction movement, the navelcord should strangle her creature and the injunction
upon her in the event of a yearning, ardently and ineffectually upon her in the event of a yearning, ardently and ineffectually
entertained, to place her hand against that part of her person which long entertained, to place her hand against that part of her person which long
usage has consecrated as the seat of castigation. The abnormalities of usage has consecrated as the seat of castigation. The abnormalities of
harelip, breastmole, supernumerary digits, negro's inkle, strawberry mark harelip, breastmole, supernumerary digits, negro's inkle, strawberry mark
and portwine stain were alleged by one as a PRIMA FACIE and natural and portwine stain were alleged by one as a PRIMA FACIE and natural
hypothetical explanation of those swineheaded (the case of Madame Grissel hypothetical explanation of those swineheaded (the case of Madame Grissel
Steevens was not forgotten) or doghaired infants occasionally born. The Steevens was not forgotten) or doghaired infants occasionally born. The
hypothesis of a plasmic memory, advanced by the Caledonian envoy and hypothesis of a plasmic memory, advanced by the Caledonian envoy and
worthy of the metaphysical traditions of the land he stood for, envisaged worthy of the metaphysical traditions of the land he stood for, envisaged
in such cases an arrest of embryonic development at some stage antecedent in such cases an arrest of embryonic development at some stage antecedent
to the human. An outlandish delegate sustained against both these views, to the human. An outlandish delegate sustained against both these views,
with such heat as almost carried conviction, the theory of copulation with such heat as almost carried conviction, the theory of copulation
between women and the males of brutes, his authority being his own between women and the males of brutes, his authority being his own
avouchment in support of fables such as that of the Minotaur which the avouchment in support of fables such as that of the Minotaur which the
genius of the elegant Latin poet has handed down to us in the pages of genius of the elegant Latin poet has handed down to us in the pages of
his Metamorphoses. The impression made by his words was immediate but his Metamorphoses. The impression made by his words was immediate but
shortlived. It was effaced as easily as it had been evoked by an shortlived. It was effaced as easily as it had been evoked by an
allocution from Mr Candidate Mulligan in that vein of pleasantry which allocution from Mr Candidate Mulligan in that vein of pleasantry which
none better than he knew how to affect, postulating as the supremest none better than he knew how to affect, postulating as the supremest
object of desire a nice clean old man. Contemporaneously, a heated object of desire a nice clean old man. Contemporaneously, a heated
argument having arisen between Mr Delegate Madden and Mr Candidate Lynch argument having arisen between Mr Delegate Madden and Mr Candidate Lynch
regarding the juridical and theological dilemma created in the event of regarding the juridical and theological dilemma created in the event of
one Siamese twin predeceasing the other, the difficulty by mutual consent one Siamese twin predeceasing the other, the difficulty by mutual consent
was referred to Mr Canvasser Bloom for instant submittal to Mr Coadjutor was referred to Mr Canvasser Bloom for instant submittal to Mr Coadjutor
Deacon Dedalus. Hitherto silent, whether the better to show by Deacon Dedalus. Hitherto silent, whether the better to show by
preternatural gravity that curious dignity of the garb with which he was preternatural gravity that curious dignity of the garb with which he was
invested or in obedience to an inward voice, he delivered briefly and, as invested or in obedience to an inward voice, he delivered briefly and, as
some thought, perfunctorily the ecclesiastical ordinance forbidding man some thought, perfunctorily the ecclesiastical ordinance forbidding man
to put asunder what God has joined. to put asunder what God has joined.
But Malachias' tale began to freeze them with horror. He conjured up the But Malachias' tale began to freeze them with horror. He conjured up the
scene before them. The secret panel beside the chimney slid back and in scene before them. The secret panel beside the chimney slid back and in
the recess appeared ... Haines! Which of us did not feel his flesh creep! the recess appeared ... Haines! Which of us did not feel his flesh creep!
He had a portfolio full of Celtic literature in one hand, in the other a He had a portfolio full of Celtic literature in one hand, in the other a
phial marked POISON. Surprise, horror, loathing were depicted on all phial marked POISON. Surprise, horror, loathing were depicted on all
faces while he eyed them with a ghostly grin. I anticipated some such faces while he eyed them with a ghostly grin. I anticipated some such
reception, he began with an eldritch laugh, for which, it seems, history reception, he began with an eldritch laugh, for which, it seems, history
is to blame. Yes, it is true. I am the murderer of Samuel Childs. And how is to blame. Yes, it is true. I am the murderer of Samuel Childs. And how
I am punished! The inferno has no terrors for me. This is the appearance I am punished! The inferno has no terrors for me. This is the appearance
is on me. Tare and ages, what way would I be resting at all, he muttered is on me. Tare and ages, what way would I be resting at all, he muttered
thickly, and I tramping Dublin this while back with my share of songs and thickly, and I tramping Dublin this while back with my share of songs and
himself after me the like of a soulth or a bullawurrus? My hell, and himself after me the like of a soulth or a bullawurrus? My hell, and
Ireland's, is in this life. It is what I tried to obliterate my crime. Ireland's, is in this life. It is what I tried to obliterate my crime.
Distractions, rookshooting, the Erse language (he recited some), laudanum Distractions, rookshooting, the Erse language (he recited some), laudanum
(he raised the phial to his lips), camping out. In vain! His spectre (he raised the phial to his lips), camping out. In vain! His spectre
stalks me. Dope is my only hope ... Ah! Destruction! The black panther! stalks me. Dope is my only hope ... Ah! Destruction! The black panther!
With a cry he suddenly vanished and the panel slid back. An instant later With a cry he suddenly vanished and the panel slid back. An instant later
his head appeared in the door opposite and said: Meet me at Westland Row his head appeared in the door opposite and said: Meet me at Westland Row
station at ten past eleven. He was gone. Tears gushed from the eyes of station at ten past eleven. He was gone. Tears gushed from the eyes of
the dissipated host. The seer raised his hand to heaven, murmuring: The the dissipated host. The seer raised his hand to heaven, murmuring: The
vendetta of Mananaun! The sage repeated: LEX TALIONIS. The sentimentalist vendetta of Mananaun! The sage repeated: LEX TALIONIS. The sentimentalist
is he who would enjoy without incurring the immense debtorship for a is he who would enjoy without incurring the immense debtorship for a
thing done. Malachias, overcome by emotion, ceased. The mystery was thing done. Malachias, overcome by emotion, ceased. The mystery was
unveiled. Haines was the third brother. His real name was Childs. The unveiled. Haines was the third brother. His real name was Childs. The
black panther was himself the ghost of his own father. He drank drugs to black panther was himself the ghost of his own father. He drank drugs to
obliterate. For this relief much thanks. The lonely house by the obliterate. For this relief much thanks. The lonely house by the
graveyard is uninhabited. No soul will live there. The spider pitches her graveyard is uninhabited. No soul will live there. The spider pitches her
web in the solitude. The nocturnal rat peers from his hole. A curse is on web in the solitude. The nocturnal rat peers from his hole. A curse is on
it. It is haunted. Murderer's ground. it. It is haunted. Murderer's ground.
What is the age of the soul of man? As she hath the virtue of the What is the age of the soul of man? As she hath the virtue of the
chameleon to change her hue at every new approach, to be gay with the chameleon to change her hue at every new approach, to be gay with the
merry and mournful with the downcast, so too is her age changeable as her merry and mournful with the downcast, so too is her age changeable as her
mood. No longer is Leopold, as he sits there, ruminating, chewing the cud mood. No longer is Leopold, as he sits there, ruminating, chewing the cud
of reminiscence, that staid agent of publicity and holder of a modest of reminiscence, that staid agent of publicity and holder of a modest
substance in the funds. A score of years are blown away. He is young substance in the funds. A score of years are blown away. He is young
Leopold. There, as in a retrospective arrangement, a mirror within a Leopold. There, as in a retrospective arrangement, a mirror within a
mirror (hey, presto!), he beholdeth himself. That young figure of then is mirror (hey, presto!), he beholdeth himself. That young figure of then is
seen, precociously manly, walking on a nipping morning from the old house seen, precociously manly, walking on a nipping morning from the old house
in Clanbrassil street to the high school, his booksatchel on him in Clanbrassil street to the high school, his booksatchel on him
bandolierwise, and in it a goodly hunk of wheaten loaf, a mother's bandolierwise, and in it a goodly hunk of wheaten loaf, a mother's
thought. Or it is the same figure, a year or so gone over, in his first thought. Or it is the same figure, a year or so gone over, in his first
hard hat (ah, that was a day!), already on the road, a fullfledged hard hat (ah, that was a day!), already on the road, a fullfledged
traveller for the family firm, equipped with an orderbook, a scented traveller for the family firm, equipped with an orderbook, a scented
handkerchief (not for show only), his case of bright trinketware (alas! a handkerchief (not for show only), his case of bright trinketware (alas! a
thing now of the past!) and a quiverful of compliant smiles for this or thing now of the past!) and a quiverful of compliant smiles for this or
that halfwon housewife reckoning it out upon her fingertips or for a that halfwon housewife reckoning it out upon her fingertips or for a
budding virgin, shyly acknowledging (but the heart? tell me!) his studied budding virgin, shyly acknowledging (but the heart? tell me!) his studied
baisemoins. The scent, the smile, but, more than these, the dark eyes and baisemoins. The scent, the smile, but, more than these, the dark eyes and
oleaginous address, brought home at duskfall many a commission to the oleaginous address, brought home at duskfall many a commission to the
head of the firm, seated with Jacob's pipe after like labours in the head of the firm, seated with Jacob's pipe after like labours in the
paternal ingle (a meal of noodles, you may be sure, is aheating), reading paternal ingle (a meal of noodles, you may be sure, is aheating), reading
through round horned spectacles some paper from the Europe of a month through round horned spectacles some paper from the Europe of a month
before. But hey, presto, the mirror is breathed on and the young before. But hey, presto, the mirror is breathed on and the young
knighterrant recedes, shrivels, dwindles to a tiny speck within the mist. knighterrant recedes, shrivels, dwindles to a tiny speck within the mist.
Now he is himself paternal and these about him might be his sons. Who can Now he is himself paternal and these about him might be his sons. Who can
say? The wise father knows his own child. He thinks of a drizzling night say? The wise father knows his own child. He thinks of a drizzling night
in Hatch street, hard by the bonded stores there, the first. Together in Hatch street, hard by the bonded stores there, the first. Together
(she is a poor waif, a child of shame, yours and mine and of all for a (she is a poor waif, a child of shame, yours and mine and of all for a
bare shilling and her luckpenny), together they hear the heavy tread of bare shilling and her luckpenny), together they hear the heavy tread of
the watch as two raincaped shadows pass the new royal university. Bridie! the watch as two raincaped shadows pass the new royal university. Bridie!
Bridie Kelly! He will never forget the name, ever remember the night: Bridie Kelly! He will never forget the name, ever remember the night:
first night, the bridenight. They are entwined in nethermost darkness, first night, the bridenight. They are entwined in nethermost darkness,
the willer with the willed, and in an instant (FIAT!) light shall flood the willer with the willed, and in an instant (FIAT!) light shall flood
the world. Did heart leap to heart? Nay, fair reader. In a breath 'twas the world. Did heart leap to heart? Nay, fair reader. In a breath 'twas
done but--hold! Back! It must not be! In terror the poor girl flees away done but--hold! Back! It must not be! In terror the poor girl flees away
through the murk. She is the bride of darkness, a daughter of night. She through the murk. She is the bride of darkness, a daughter of night. She
dare not bear the sunnygolden babe of day. No, Leopold. Name and memory dare not bear the sunnygolden babe of day. No, Leopold. Name and memory
solace thee not. That youthful illusion of thy strength was taken from solace thee not. That youthful illusion of thy strength was taken from
thee--and in vain. No son of thy loins is by thee. There is none now to thee--and in vain. No son of thy loins is by thee. There is none now to
be for Leopold, what Leopold was for Rudolph. be for Leopold, what Leopold was for Rudolph.
The voices blend and fuse in clouded silence: silence that is the The voices blend and fuse in clouded silence: silence that is the
infinite of space: and swiftly, silently the soul is wafted over regions infinite of space: and swiftly, silently the soul is wafted over regions
of cycles of generations that have lived. A region where grey twilight of cycles of generations that have lived. A region where grey twilight
ever descends, never falls on wide sagegreen pasturefields, shedding her ever descends, never falls on wide sagegreen pasturefields, shedding her
dusk, scattering a perennial dew of stars. She follows her mother with dusk, scattering a perennial dew of stars. She follows her mother with
ungainly steps, a mare leading her fillyfoal. Twilight phantoms are they, ungainly steps, a mare leading her fillyfoal. Twilight phantoms are they,
yet moulded in prophetic grace of structure, slim shapely haunches, a yet moulded in prophetic grace of structure, slim shapely haunches, a
supple tendonous neck, the meek apprehensive skull. They fade, sad supple tendonous neck, the meek apprehensive skull. They fade, sad
phantoms: all is gone. Agendath is a waste land, a home of screechowls phantoms: all is gone. Agendath is a waste land, a home of screechowls
and the sandblind upupa. Netaim, the golden, is no more. And on the and the sandblind upupa. Netaim, the golden, is no more. And on the
highway of the clouds they come, muttering thunder of rebellion, the highway of the clouds they come, muttering thunder of rebellion, the
ghosts of beasts. Huuh! Hark! Huuh! Parallax stalks behind and goads ghosts of beasts. Huuh! Hark! Huuh! Parallax stalks behind and goads
them, the lancinating lightnings of whose brow are scorpions. Elk and them, the lancinating lightnings of whose brow are scorpions. Elk and
yak, the bulls of Bashan and of Babylon, mammoth and mastodon, they come yak, the bulls of Bashan and of Babylon, mammoth and mastodon, they come
trooping to the sunken sea, LACUS MORTIS. Ominous revengeful zodiacal trooping to the sunken sea, LACUS MORTIS. Ominous revengeful zodiacal
host! They moan, passing upon the clouds, horned and capricorned, the host! They moan, passing upon the clouds, horned and capricorned, the
trumpeted with the tusked, the lionmaned, the giantantlered, snouter and trumpeted with the tusked, the lionmaned, the giantantlered, snouter and
crawler, rodent, ruminant and pachyderm, all their moving moaning crawler, rodent, ruminant and pachyderm, all their moving moaning
multitude, murderers of the sun. multitude, murderers of the sun.
Onward to the dead sea they tramp to drink, unslaked and with horrible Onward to the dead sea they tramp to drink, unslaked and with horrible
gulpings, the salt somnolent inexhaustible flood. And the equine portent gulpings, the salt somnolent inexhaustible flood. And the equine portent
grows again, magnified in the deserted heavens, nay to heaven's own grows again, magnified in the deserted heavens, nay to heaven's own
magnitude, till it looms, vast, over the house of Virgo. And lo, wonder magnitude, till it looms, vast, over the house of Virgo. And lo, wonder
of metempsychosis, it is she, the everlasting bride, harbinger of the of metempsychosis, it is she, the everlasting bride, harbinger of the
daystar, the bride, ever virgin. It is she, Martha, thou lost one, daystar, the bride, ever virgin. It is she, Martha, thou lost one,
Millicent, the young, the dear, the radiant. How serene does she now Millicent, the young, the dear, the radiant. How serene does she now
arise, a queen among the Pleiades, in the penultimate antelucan hour, arise, a queen among the Pleiades, in the penultimate antelucan hour,
shod in sandals of bright gold, coifed with a veil of what do you call it shod in sandals of bright gold, coifed with a veil of what do you call it
gossamer. It floats, it flows about her starborn flesh and loose it gossamer. It floats, it flows about her starborn flesh and loose it
streams, emerald, sapphire, mauve and heliotrope, sustained on currents streams, emerald, sapphire, mauve and heliotrope, sustained on currents
of the cold interstellar wind, winding, coiling, simply swirling, of the cold interstellar wind, winding, coiling, simply swirling,
writhing in the skies a mysterious writing till, after a myriad writhing in the skies a mysterious writing till, after a myriad
metamorphoses of symbol, it blazes, Alpha, a ruby and triangled sign upon metamorphoses of symbol, it blazes, Alpha, a ruby and triangled sign upon
the forehead of Taurus. the forehead of Taurus.
Francis was reminding Stephen of years before when they had been at Francis was reminding Stephen of years before when they had been at
school together in Conmee's time. He asked about Glaucon, Alcibiades, school together in Conmee's time. He asked about Glaucon, Alcibiades,
Pisistratus. Where were they now? Neither knew. You have spoken of the Pisistratus. Where were they now? Neither knew. You have spoken of the
past and its phantoms, Stephen said. Why think of them? If I call them past and its phantoms, Stephen said. Why think of them? If I call them
into life across the waters of Lethe will not the poor ghosts troop to my into life across the waters of Lethe will not the poor ghosts troop to my
call? Who supposes it? I, Bous Stephanoumenos, bullockbefriending bard, call? Who supposes it? I, Bous Stephanoumenos, bullockbefriending bard,
am lord and giver of their life. He encircled his gadding hair with a am lord and giver of their life. He encircled his gadding hair with a
coronal of vineleaves, smiling at Vincent. That answer and those leaves, coronal of vineleaves, smiling at Vincent. That answer and those leaves,
Vincent said to him, will adorn you more fitly when something more, and Vincent said to him, will adorn you more fitly when something more, and
greatly more, than a capful of light odes can call your genius father. greatly more, than a capful of light odes can call your genius father.
All who wish you well hope this for you. All desire to see you bring All who wish you well hope this for you. All desire to see you bring
forth the work you meditate, to acclaim you Stephaneforos. I heartily forth the work you meditate, to acclaim you Stephaneforos. I heartily
wish you may not fail them. O no, Vincent Lenehan said, laying a hand on wish you may not fail them. O no, Vincent Lenehan said, laying a hand on
the shoulder near him. Have no fear. He could not leave his mother an the shoulder near him. Have no fear. He could not leave his mother an
orphan. The young man's face grew dark. All could see how hard it was for orphan. The young man's face grew dark. All could see how hard it was for
him to be reminded of his promise and of his recent loss. He would have him to be reminded of his promise and of his recent loss. He would have
withdrawn from the feast had not the noise of voices allayed the smart. withdrawn from the feast had not the noise of voices allayed the smart.
Madden had lost five drachmas on Sceptre for a whim of the rider's name: Madden had lost five drachmas on Sceptre for a whim of the rider's name:
Lenehan as much more. He told them of the race. The flag fell and, huuh! Lenehan as much more. He told them of the race. The flag fell and, huuh!
off, scamper, the mare ran out freshly with O. Madden up. She was leading off, scamper, the mare ran out freshly with O. Madden up. She was leading
the field. All hearts were beating. Even Phyllis could not contain the field. All hearts were beating. Even Phyllis could not contain
herself. She waved her scarf and cried: Huzzah! Sceptre wins! But in the herself. She waved her scarf and cried: Huzzah! Sceptre wins! But in the
straight on the run home when all were in close order the dark horse straight on the run home when all were in close order the dark horse
Throwaway drew level, reached, outstripped her. All was lost now. Phyllis Throwaway drew level, reached, outstripped her. All was lost now. Phyllis
was silent: her eyes were sad anemones. Juno, she cried, I am undone. But was silent: her eyes were sad anemones. Juno, she cried, I am undone. But
her lover consoled her and brought her a bright casket of gold in which her lover consoled her and brought her a bright casket of gold in which
lay some oval sugarplums which she partook. A tear fell: one only. A lay some oval sugarplums which she partook. A tear fell: one only. A
whacking fine whip, said Lenehan, is W. Lane. Four winners yesterday and whacking fine whip, said Lenehan, is W. Lane. Four winners yesterday and
three today. What rider is like him? Mount him on the camel or the three today. What rider is like him? Mount him on the camel or the
boisterous buffalo the victory in a hack canter is still his. But let us boisterous buffalo the victory in a hack canter is still his. But let us
bear it as was the ancient wont. Mercy on the luckless! Poor Sceptre! he bear it as was the ancient wont. Mercy on the luckless! Poor Sceptre! he
said with a light sigh. She is not the filly that she was. Never, by this said with a light sigh. She is not the filly that she was. Never, by this
hand, shall we behold such another. By gad, sir, a queen of them. Do you hand, shall we behold such another. By gad, sir, a queen of them. Do you
remember her, Vincent? I wish you could have seen my queen today, Vincent remember her, Vincent? I wish you could have seen my queen today, Vincent
said. How young she was and radiant (Lalage were scarce fair beside her) said. How young she was and radiant (Lalage were scarce fair beside her)
in her yellow shoes and frock of muslin, I do not know the right name of in her yellow shoes and frock of muslin, I do not know the right name of
it. The chestnuts that shaded us were in bloom: the air drooped with it. The chestnuts that shaded us were in bloom: the air drooped with
their persuasive odour and with pollen floating by us. In the sunny their persuasive odour and with pollen floating by us. In the sunny
patches one might easily have cooked on a stone a batch of those buns patches one might easily have cooked on a stone a batch of those buns
with Corinth fruit in them that Periplipomenes sells in his booth near with Corinth fruit in them that Periplipomenes sells in his booth near
the bridge. But she had nought for her teeth but the arm with which I the bridge. But she had nought for her teeth but the arm with which I
held her and in that she nibbled mischievously when I pressed too close. held her and in that she nibbled mischievously when I pressed too close.
A week ago she lay ill, four days on the couch, but today she was free, A week ago she lay ill, four days on the couch, but today she was free,
blithe, mocked at peril. She is more taking then. Her posies tool Mad blithe, mocked at peril. She is more taking then. Her posies tool Mad
romp that she is, she had pulled her fill as we reclined together. And in romp that she is, she had pulled her fill as we reclined together. And in
your ear, my friend, you will not think who met us as we left the field. your ear, my friend, you will not think who met us as we left the field.
Conmee himself! He was walking by the hedge, reading, I think a brevier Conmee himself! He was walking by the hedge, reading, I think a brevier
book with, I doubt not, a witty letter in it from Glycera or Chloe to book with, I doubt not, a witty letter in it from Glycera or Chloe to
keep the page. The sweet creature turned all colours in her confusion, keep the page. The sweet creature turned all colours in her confusion,
feigning to reprove a slight disorder in her dress: a slip of underwood feigning to reprove a slight disorder in her dress: a slip of underwood
clung there for the very trees adore her. When Conmee had passed she clung there for the very trees adore her. When Conmee had passed she
glanced at her lovely echo in that little mirror she carries. But he had glanced at her lovely echo in that little mirror she carries. But he had
been kind. In going by he had blessed us. The gods too are ever kind, been kind. In going by he had blessed us. The gods too are ever kind,
Lenehan said. If I had poor luck with Bass's mare perhaps this draught of Lenehan said. If I had poor luck with Bass's mare perhaps this draught of
his may serve me more propensely. He was laying his hand upon a winejar: his may serve me more propensely. He was laying his hand upon a winejar:
Malachi saw it and withheld his act, pointing to the stranger and to the Malachi saw it and withheld his act, pointing to the stranger and to the
scarlet label. Warily, Malachi whispered, preserve a druid silence. His scarlet label. Warily, Malachi whispered, preserve a druid silence. His
soul is far away. It is as painful perhaps to be awakened from a vision soul is far away. It is as painful perhaps to be awakened from a vision
as to be born. Any object, intensely regarded, may be a gate of access to as to be born. Any object, intensely regarded, may be a gate of access to
the incorruptible eon of the gods. Do you not think it, Stephen? the incorruptible eon of the gods. Do you not think it, Stephen?
Theosophos told me so, Stephen answered, whom in a previous existence Theosophos told me so, Stephen answered, whom in a previous existence
Egyptian priests initiated into the mysteries of karmic law. The lords of Egyptian priests initiated into the mysteries of karmic law. The lords of
the moon, Theosophos told me, an orangefiery shipload from planet Alpha the moon, Theosophos told me, an orangefiery shipload from planet Alpha
of the lunar chain would not assume the etheric doubles and these were of the lunar chain would not assume the etheric doubles and these were
therefore incarnated by the rubycoloured egos from the second therefore incarnated by the rubycoloured egos from the second
constellation. constellation.
However, as a matter of fact though, the preposterous surmise about him However, as a matter of fact though, the preposterous surmise about him
being in some description of a doldrums or other or mesmerised which was. being in some description of a doldrums or other or mesmerised which was.
entirely due to a misconception of the shallowest character, was not the entirely due to a misconception of the shallowest character, was not the
case at all. The individual whose visual organs while the above was going case at all. The individual whose visual organs while the above was going
on were at this juncture commencing to exhibit symptoms of animation was on were at this juncture commencing to exhibit symptoms of animation was
as astute if not astuter than any man living and anybody that conjectured as astute if not astuter than any man living and anybody that conjectured
the contrary would have found themselves pretty speedily in the wrong the contrary would have found themselves pretty speedily in the wrong
shop. During the past four minutes or thereabouts he had been staring shop. During the past four minutes or thereabouts he had been staring
hard at a certain amount of number one Bass bottled by Messrs Bass and Co hard at a certain amount of number one Bass bottled by Messrs Bass and Co
at Burton-on-Trent which happened to be situated amongst a lot of others at Burton-on-Trent which happened to be situated amongst a lot of others
right opposite to where he was and which was certainly calculated to right opposite to where he was and which was certainly calculated to
attract anyone's remark on account of its scarlet appearance. He was attract anyone's remark on account of its scarlet appearance. He was
simply and solely, as it subsequently transpired for reasons best known simply and solely, as it subsequently transpired for reasons best known
to himself, which put quite an altogether different complexion on the to himself, which put quite an altogether different complexion on the
proceedings, after the moment before's observations about boyhood days proceedings, after the moment before's observations about boyhood days
and the turf, recollecting two or three private transactions of his own and the turf, recollecting two or three private transactions of his own
which the other two were as mutually innocent of as the babe unborn. which the other two were as mutually innocent of as the babe unborn.
Eventually, however, both their eyes met and as soon as it began to dawn Eventually, however, both their eyes met and as soon as it began to dawn
on him that the other was endeavouring to help himself to the thing he on him that the other was endeavouring to help himself to the thing he
involuntarily determined to help him himself and so he accordingly took involuntarily determined to help him himself and so he accordingly took
hold of the neck of the mediumsized glass recipient which contained the hold of the neck of the mediumsized glass recipient which contained the
fluid sought after and made a capacious hole in it by pouring a lot of it fluid sought after and made a capacious hole in it by pouring a lot of it
out with, also at the same time, however, a considerable degree of out with, also at the same time, however, a considerable degree of
attentiveness in order not to upset any of the beer that was in it about attentiveness in order not to upset any of the beer that was in it about
the place. the place.
The debate which ensued was in its scope and progress an epitome of the The debate which ensued was in its scope and progress an epitome of the
course of life. Neither place nor council was lacking in dignity. The course of life. Neither place nor council was lacking in dignity. The
debaters were the keenest in the land, the theme they were engaged on the debaters were the keenest in the land, the theme they were engaged on the
loftiest and most vital. The high hall of Horne's house had never beheld loftiest and most vital. The high hall of Horne's house had never beheld
an assembly so representative and so varied nor had the old rafters of an assembly so representative and so varied nor had the old rafters of
that establishment ever listened to a language so encyclopaedic. A that establishment ever listened to a language so encyclopaedic. A
gallant scene in truth it made. Crotthers was there at the foot of the gallant scene in truth it made. Crotthers was there at the foot of the
table in his striking Highland garb, his face glowing from the briny airs table in his striking Highland garb, his face glowing from the briny airs
of the Mull of Galloway. There too, opposite to him, was Lynch whose of the Mull of Galloway. There too, opposite to him, was Lynch whose
countenance bore already the stigmata of early depravity and premature countenance bore already the stigmata of early depravity and premature
wisdom. Next the Scotchman was the place assigned to Costello, the wisdom. Next the Scotchman was the place assigned to Costello, the
eccentric, while at his side was seated in stolid repose the squat form eccentric, while at his side was seated in stolid repose the squat form
of Madden. The chair of the resident indeed stood vacant before the of Madden. The chair of the resident indeed stood vacant before the
hearth but on either flank of it the figure of Bannon in explorer's kit hearth but on either flank of it the figure of Bannon in explorer's kit
of tweed shorts and salted cowhide brogues contrasted sharply with the of tweed shorts and salted cowhide brogues contrasted sharply with the
primrose elegance and townbred manners of Malachi Roland St John primrose elegance and townbred manners of Malachi Roland St John
Mulligan. Lastly at the head of the board was the young poet who found a Mulligan. Lastly at the head of the board was the young poet who found a
refuge from his labours of pedagogy and metaphysical inquisition in the refuge from his labours of pedagogy and metaphysical inquisition in the
convivial atmosphere of Socratic discussion, while to right and left of convivial atmosphere of Socratic discussion, while to right and left of
him were accommodated the flippant prognosticator, fresh from the him were accommodated the flippant prognosticator, fresh from the
hippodrome, and that vigilant wanderer, soiled by the dust of travel and hippodrome, and that vigilant wanderer, soiled by the dust of travel and
combat and stained by the mire of an indelible dishonour, but from whose combat and stained by the mire of an indelible dishonour, but from whose
steadfast and constant heart no lure or peril or threat or degradation steadfast and constant heart no lure or peril or threat or degradation
could ever efface the image of that voluptuous loveliness which the could ever efface the image of that voluptuous loveliness which the
inspired pencil of Lafayette has limned for ages yet to come. inspired pencil of Lafayette has limned for ages yet to come.
It had better be stated here and now at the outset that the perverted It had better be stated here and now at the outset that the perverted
transcendentalism to which Mr S. Dedalus' (Div. Scep.) contentions would transcendentalism to which Mr S. Dedalus' (Div. Scep.) contentions would
appear to prove him pretty badly addicted runs directly counter to appear to prove him pretty badly addicted runs directly counter to
accepted scientific methods. Science, it cannot be too often repeated, accepted scientific methods. Science, it cannot be too often repeated,
deals with tangible phenomena. The man of science like the man in the deals with tangible phenomena. The man of science like the man in the
street has to face hardheaded facts that cannot be blinked and explain street has to face hardheaded facts that cannot be blinked and explain
them as best he can. There may be, it is true, some questions which them as best he can. There may be, it is true, some questions which
science cannot answer--at present--such as the first problem submitted by science cannot answer--at present--such as the first problem submitted by
Mr L. Bloom (Pubb. Canv.) regarding the future determination of sex. Must Mr L. Bloom (Pubb. Canv.) regarding the future determination of sex. Must
we accept the view of Empedocles of Trinacria that the right ovary (the we accept the view of Empedocles of Trinacria that the right ovary (the
postmenstrual period, assert others) is responsible for the birth of postmenstrual period, assert others) is responsible for the birth of
males or are the too long neglected spermatozoa or nemasperms the males or are the too long neglected spermatozoa or nemasperms the
differentiating factors or is it, as most embryologists incline to opine, differentiating factors or is it, as most embryologists incline to opine,
such as Culpepper, Spallanzani, Blumenbach, Lusk, Hertwig, Leopold and such as Culpepper, Spallanzani, Blumenbach, Lusk, Hertwig, Leopold and
Valenti, a mixture of both? This would be tantamount to a cooperation Valenti, a mixture of both? This would be tantamount to a cooperation
(one of nature's favourite devices) between the NISUS FORMATIVUS of the (one of nature's favourite devices) between the NISUS FORMATIVUS of the
nemasperm on the one hand and on the other a happily chosen position, nemasperm on the one hand and on the other a happily chosen position,
SUCCUBITUS FELIX of the passive element. The other problem raised by the SUCCUBITUS FELIX of the passive element. The other problem raised by the
same inquirer is scarcely less vital: infant mortality. It is interesting same inquirer is scarcely less vital: infant mortality. It is interesting
because, as he pertinently remarks, we are all born in the same way but because, as he pertinently remarks, we are all born in the same way but
we all die in different ways. Mr M. Mulligan (Hyg. et Eug. Doc.) blames we all die in different ways. Mr M. Mulligan (Hyg. et Eug. Doc.) blames
the sanitary conditions in which our greylunged citizens contract the sanitary conditions in which our greylunged citizens contract
adenoids, pulmonary complaints etc. by inhaling the bacteria which lurk adenoids, pulmonary complaints etc. by inhaling the bacteria which lurk
in dust. These factors, he alleged, and the revolting spectacles offered in dust. These factors, he alleged, and the revolting spectacles offered
by our streets, hideous publicity posters, religious ministers of all by our streets, hideous publicity posters, religious ministers of all
denominations, mutilated soldiers and sailors, exposed scorbutic denominations, mutilated soldiers and sailors, exposed scorbutic
cardrivers, the suspended carcases of dead animals, paranoic bachelors cardrivers, the suspended carcases of dead animals, paranoic bachelors
and unfructified duennas--these, he said, were accountable for any and and unfructified duennas--these, he said, were accountable for any and
every fallingoff in the calibre of the race. Kalipedia, he prophesied, every fallingoff in the calibre of the race. Kalipedia, he prophesied,
would soon be generally adopted and all the graces of life, genuinely would soon be generally adopted and all the graces of life, genuinely
good music, agreeable literature, light philosophy, instructive pictures, good music, agreeable literature, light philosophy, instructive pictures,
plastercast reproductions of the classical statues such as Venus and plastercast reproductions of the classical statues such as Venus and
Apollo, artistic coloured photographs of prize babies, all these little Apollo, artistic coloured photographs of prize babies, all these little
attentions would enable ladies who were in a particular condition to pass attentions would enable ladies who were in a particular condition to pass
the intervening months in a most enjoyable manner. Mr J. Crotthers (Disc. the intervening months in a most enjoyable manner. Mr J. Crotthers (Disc.
Bacc.) attributes some of these demises to abdominal trauma in the case Bacc.) attributes some of these demises to abdominal trauma in the case
of women workers subjected to heavy labours in the workshop and to of women workers subjected to heavy labours in the workshop and to
marital discipline in the home but by far the vast majority to neglect, marital discipline in the home but by far the vast majority to neglect,
private or official, culminating in the exposure of newborn infants, the private or official, culminating in the exposure of newborn infants, the
practice of criminal abortion or in the atrocious crime of infanticide. practice of criminal abortion or in the atrocious crime of infanticide.
Although the former (we are thinking of neglect) is undoubtedly only too Although the former (we are thinking of neglect) is undoubtedly only too
true the case he cites of nurses forgetting to count the sponges in the true the case he cites of nurses forgetting to count the sponges in the
peritoneal cavity is too rare to be normative. In fact when one comes to peritoneal cavity is too rare to be normative. In fact when one comes to
look into it the wonder is that so many pregnancies and deliveries go off look into it the wonder is that so many pregnancies and deliveries go off
so well as they do, all things considered and in spite of our human so well as they do, all things considered and in spite of our human
shortcomings which often baulk nature in her intentions. An ingenious shortcomings which often baulk nature in her intentions. An ingenious
suggestion is that thrown out by Mr V. Lynch (Bacc. Arith.) that both suggestion is that thrown out by Mr V. Lynch (Bacc. Arith.) that both
natality and mortality, as well as all other phenomena of evolution, natality and mortality, as well as all other phenomena of evolution,
tidal movements, lunar phases, blood temperatures, diseases in general, tidal movements, lunar phases, blood temperatures, diseases in general,
everything, in fine, in nature's vast workshop from the extinction of everything, in fine, in nature's vast workshop from the extinction of
some remote sun to the blossoming of one of the countless flowers which some remote sun to the blossoming of one of the countless flowers which
beautify our public parks is subject to a law of numeration as yet beautify our public parks is subject to a law of numeration as yet
unascertained. Still the plain straightforward question why a child of unascertained. Still the plain straightforward question why a child of
normally healthy parents and seemingly a healthy child and properly normally healthy parents and seemingly a healthy child and properly
looked after succumbs unaccountably in early childhood (though other looked after succumbs unaccountably in early childhood (though other
children of the same marriage do not) must certainly, in the poet's children of the same marriage do not) must certainly, in the poet's
words, give us pause. Nature, we may rest assured, has her own good and words, give us pause. Nature, we may rest assured, has her own good and
cogent reasons for whatever she does and in all probability such deaths cogent reasons for whatever she does and in all probability such deaths
are due to some law of anticipation by which organisms in which morbous are due to some law of anticipation by which organisms in which morbous
germs have taken up their residence (modern science has conclusively germs have taken up their residence (modern science has conclusively
shown that only the plasmic substance can be said to be immortal) tend to shown that only the plasmic substance can be said to be immortal) tend to
disappear at an increasingly earlier stage of development, an arrangement disappear at an increasingly earlier stage of development, an arrangement
which, though productive of pain to some of our feelings (notably the which, though productive of pain to some of our feelings (notably the
maternal), is nevertheless, some of us think, in the long run beneficial maternal), is nevertheless, some of us think, in the long run beneficial
to the race in general in securing thereby the survival of the fittest. to the race in general in securing thereby the survival of the fittest.
Mr S. Dedalus' (Div. Scep.) remark (or should it be called an Mr S. Dedalus' (Div. Scep.) remark (or should it be called an
interruption?) that an omnivorous being which can masticate, deglute, interruption?) that an omnivorous being which can masticate, deglute,
digest and apparently pass through the ordinary channel with digest and apparently pass through the ordinary channel with
pluterperfect imperturbability such multifarious aliments as cancrenous pluterperfect imperturbability such multifarious aliments as cancrenous
females emaciated by parturition, corpulent professional gentlemen, not females emaciated by parturition, corpulent professional gentlemen, not
to speak of jaundiced politicians and chlorotic nuns, might possibly find to speak of jaundiced politicians and chlorotic nuns, might possibly find
gastric relief in an innocent collation of staggering bob, reveals as gastric relief in an innocent collation of staggering bob, reveals as
nought else could and in a very unsavoury light the tendency above nought else could and in a very unsavoury light the tendency above
alluded to. For the enlightenment of those who are not so intimately alluded to. For the enlightenment of those who are not so intimately
acquainted with the minutiae of the municipal abattoir as this acquainted with the minutiae of the municipal abattoir as this
morbidminded esthete and embryo philosopher who for all his overweening morbidminded esthete and embryo philosopher who for all his overweening
bumptiousness in things scientific can scarcely distinguish an acid from bumptiousness in things scientific can scarcely distinguish an acid from
an alkali prides himself on being, it should perhaps be stated that an alkali prides himself on being, it should perhaps be stated that
staggering bob in the vile parlance of our lowerclass licensed staggering bob in the vile parlance of our lowerclass licensed
victuallers signifies the cookable and eatable flesh of a calf newly victuallers signifies the cookable and eatable flesh of a calf newly
dropped from its mother. In a recent public controversy with Mr L. Bloom dropped from its mother. In a recent public controversy with Mr L. Bloom
(Pubb. Canv.) which took place in the commons' hall of the National (Pubb. Canv.) which took place in the commons' hall of the National
Maternity Hospital, 29, 30 and 31 Holles street, of which, as is well Maternity Hospital, 29, 30 and 31 Holles street, of which, as is well
known, Dr A. Horne (Lic. in Midw., F. K. Q. C. P. I.) is the able and known, Dr A. Horne (Lic. in Midw., F. K. Q. C. P. I.) is the able and
popular master, he is reported by eyewitnesses as having stated that once popular master, he is reported by eyewitnesses as having stated that once
a woman has let the cat into the bag (an esthete's allusion, presumably, a woman has let the cat into the bag (an esthete's allusion, presumably,
to one of the most complicated and marvellous of all nature's processes-- to one of the most complicated and marvellous of all nature's processes--
the act of sexual congress) she must let it out again or give it life, as the act of sexual congress) she must let it out again or give it life, as
he phrased it, to save her own. At the risk of her own, was the telling he phrased it, to save her own. At the risk of her own, was the telling
rejoinder of his interlocutor, none the less effective for the moderate rejoinder of his interlocutor, none the less effective for the moderate
and measured tone in which it was delivered. and measured tone in which it was delivered.
Meanwhile the skill and patience of the physician had brought about a Meanwhile the skill and patience of the physician had brought about a
happy ACCOUCHEMENT. It had been a weary weary while both for patient and happy ACCOUCHEMENT. It had been a weary weary while both for patient and
doctor. All that surgical skill could do was done and the brave woman had doctor. All that surgical skill could do was done and the brave woman had
manfully helped. She had. She had fought the good fight and now she was manfully helped. She had. She had fought the good fight and now she was
very very happy. Those who have passed on, who have gone before, are very very happy. Those who have passed on, who have gone before, are
happy too as they gaze down and smile upon the touching scene. Reverently happy too as they gaze down and smile upon the touching scene. Reverently
look at her as she reclines there with the motherlight in her eyes, that look at her as she reclines there with the motherlight in her eyes, that
longing hunger for baby fingers (a pretty sight it is to see), in the longing hunger for baby fingers (a pretty sight it is to see), in the
first bloom of her new motherhood, breathing a silent prayer of first bloom of her new motherhood, breathing a silent prayer of
thanksgiving to One above, the Universal Husband. And as her loving eyes thanksgiving to One above, the Universal Husband. And as her loving eyes
behold her babe she wishes only one blessing more, to have her dear Doady behold her babe she wishes only one blessing more, to have her dear Doady
there with her to share her joy, to lay in his arms that mite of God's there with her to share her joy, to lay in his arms that mite of God's
clay, the fruit of their lawful embraces. He is older now (you and I may clay, the fruit of their lawful embraces. He is older now (you and I may
whisper it) and a trifle stooped in the shoulders yet in the whirligig of whisper it) and a trifle stooped in the shoulders yet in the whirligig of
years a grave dignity has come to the conscientious second accountant of years a grave dignity has come to the conscientious second accountant of
the Ulster bank, College Green branch. O Doady, loved one of old, the Ulster bank, College Green branch. O Doady, loved one of old,
faithful lifemate now, it may never be again, that faroff time of the faithful lifemate now, it may never be again, that faroff time of the
roses! With the old shake of her pretty head she recalls those days. God! roses! With the old shake of her pretty head she recalls those days. God!
How beautiful now across the mist of years! But their children are How beautiful now across the mist of years! But their children are
grouped in her imagination about the bedside, hers and his, Charley, Mary grouped in her imagination about the bedside, hers and his, Charley, Mary
Alice, Frederick Albert (if he had lived), Mamy, Budgy (Victoria Alice, Frederick Albert (if he had lived), Mamy, Budgy (Victoria
Frances), Tom, Violet Constance Louisa, darling little Bobsy (called Frances), Tom, Violet Constance Louisa, darling little Bobsy (called
after our famous hero of the South African war, lord Bobs of Waterford after our famous hero of the South African war, lord Bobs of Waterford
and Candahar) and now this last pledge of their union, a Purefoy if ever and Candahar) and now this last pledge of their union, a Purefoy if ever
there was one, with the true Purefoy nose. Young hopeful will be there was one, with the true Purefoy nose. Young hopeful will be
christened Mortimer Edward after the influential third cousin of Mr christened Mortimer Edward after the influential third cousin of Mr
Purefoy in the Treasury Remembrancer's office, Dublin Castle. And so time Purefoy in the Treasury Remembrancer's office, Dublin Castle. And so time
wags on: but father Cronion has dealt lightly here. No, let no sigh break wags on: but father Cronion has dealt lightly here. No, let no sigh break
from that bosom, dear gentle Mina. And Doady, knock the ashes from your from that bosom, dear gentle Mina. And Doady, knock the ashes from your
pipe, the seasoned briar you still fancy when the curfew rings for you pipe, the seasoned briar you still fancy when the curfew rings for you
(may it be the distant day!) and dout the light whereby you read in the (may it be the distant day!) and dout the light whereby you read in the
Sacred Book for the oil too has run low, and so with a tranquil heart to Sacred Book for the oil too has run low, and so with a tranquil heart to
bed, to rest. He knows and will call in His own good time. You too have bed, to rest. He knows and will call in His own good time. You too have
fought the good fight and played loyally your man's part. Sir, to you my fought the good fight and played loyally your man's part. Sir, to you my
hand. Well done, thou good and faithful servant! hand. Well done, thou good and faithful servant!
There are sins or (let us call them as the world calls them) evil There are sins or (let us call them as the world calls them) evil
memories which are hidden away by man in the darkest places of the heart memories which are hidden away by man in the darkest places of the heart
but they abide there and wait. He may suffer their memory to grow dim, but they abide there and wait. He may suffer their memory to grow dim,
let them be as though they had not been and all but persuade himself that let them be as though they had not been and all but persuade himself that
they were not or at least were otherwise. Yet a chance word will call they were not or at least were otherwise. Yet a chance word will call
them forth suddenly and they will rise up to confront him in the most them forth suddenly and they will rise up to confront him in the most
various circumstances, a vision or a dream, or while timbrel and harp various circumstances, a vision or a dream, or while timbrel and harp
soothe his senses or amid the cool silver tranquility of the evening or soothe his senses or amid the cool silver tranquility of the evening or
at the feast, at midnight, when he is now filled with wine. Not to insult at the feast, at midnight, when he is now filled with wine. Not to insult
over him will the vision come as over one that lies under her wrath, not over him will the vision come as over one that lies under her wrath, not
for vengeance to cut him off from the living but shrouded in the piteous for vengeance to cut him off from the living but shrouded in the piteous
vesture of the past, silent, remote, reproachful. vesture of the past, silent, remote, reproachful.
The stranger still regarded on the face before him a slow recession of The stranger still regarded on the face before him a slow recession of
that false calm there, imposed, as it seemed, by habit or some studied that false calm there, imposed, as it seemed, by habit or some studied
trick, upon words so embittered as to accuse in their speaker an trick, upon words so embittered as to accuse in their speaker an
unhealthiness, a FLAIR, for the cruder things of life. A scene disengages unhealthiness, a FLAIR, for the cruder things of life. A scene disengages
itself in the observer's memory, evoked, it would seem, by a word of so itself in the observer's memory, evoked, it would seem, by a word of so
natural a homeliness as if those days were really present there (as some natural a homeliness as if those days were really present there (as some
thought) with their immediate pleasures. A shaven space of lawn one soft thought) with their immediate pleasures. A shaven space of lawn one soft
May evening, the wellremembered grove of lilacs at Roundtown, purple and May evening, the wellremembered grove of lilacs at Roundtown, purple and
white, fragrant slender spectators of the game but with much real white, fragrant slender spectators of the game but with much real
interest in the pellets as they run slowly forward over the sward or interest in the pellets as they run slowly forward over the sward or
collide and stop, one by its fellow, with a brief alert shock. And yonder collide and stop, one by its fellow, with a brief alert shock. And yonder
about that grey urn where the water moves at times in thoughtful about that grey urn where the water moves at times in thoughtful
irrigation you saw another as fragrant sisterhood, Floey, Atty, Tiny and irrigation you saw another as fragrant sisterhood, Floey, Atty, Tiny and
their darker friend with I know not what of arresting in her pose then, their darker friend with I know not what of arresting in her pose then,
Our Lady of the Cherries, a comely brace of them pendent from an ear, Our Lady of the Cherries, a comely brace of them pendent from an ear,
bringing out the foreign warmth of the skin so daintily against the cool bringing out the foreign warmth of the skin so daintily against the cool
ardent fruit. A lad of four or five in linseywoolsey (blossomtime but ardent fruit. A lad of four or five in linseywoolsey (blossomtime but
there will be cheer in the kindly hearth when ere long the bowls are there will be cheer in the kindly hearth when ere long the bowls are
gathered and hutched) is standing on the urn secured by that circle of gathered and hutched) is standing on the urn secured by that circle of
girlish fond hands. He frowns a little just as this young man does now girlish fond hands. He frowns a little just as this young man does now
with a perhaps too conscious enjoyment of the danger but must needs with a perhaps too conscious enjoyment of the danger but must needs
glance at whiles towards where his mother watches from the PIAZZETTA glance at whiles towards where his mother watches from the PIAZZETTA
giving upon the flowerclose with a faint shadow of remoteness or of giving upon the flowerclose with a faint shadow of remoteness or of
reproach (ALLES VERGANGLICHE) in her glad look. reproach (ALLES VERGANGLICHE) in her glad look.
Mark this farther and remember. The end comes suddenly. Enter that Mark this farther and remember. The end comes suddenly. Enter that
antechamber of birth where the studious are assembled and note their antechamber of birth where the studious are assembled and note their
faces. Nothing, as it seems, there of rash or violent. Quietude of faces. Nothing, as it seems, there of rash or violent. Quietude of
(WITH OBESE STUPIDITY FLORRY TALBOT REGARDS STEPHEN.) (WITH OBESE STUPIDITY FLORRY TALBOT REGARDS STEPHEN.)
FLORRY: They say the last day is coming this summer. FLORRY: They say the last day is coming this summer.
KITTY: No! KITTY: No!
ZOE: (EXPLODES IN LAUGHTER) Great unjust God! ZOE: (EXPLODES IN LAUGHTER) Great unjust God!
FLORRY: (OFFENDED) Well, it was in the papers about Antichrist. O, my FLORRY: (OFFENDED) Well, it was in the papers about Antichrist. O, my
foot's tickling. foot's tickling.
(RAGGED BAREFOOT NEWSBOYS, JOGGING A WAGTAIL KITE, PATTER PAST, YELLING.) (RAGGED BAREFOOT NEWSBOYS, JOGGING A WAGTAIL KITE, PATTER PAST, YELLING.)
THE NEWSBOYS: Stop press edition. Result of the rockinghorse races. Sea THE NEWSBOYS: Stop press edition. Result of the rockinghorse races. Sea
serpent in the royal canal. Safe arrival of Antichrist. serpent in the royal canal. Safe arrival of Antichrist.
(STEPHEN TURNS AND SEES BLOOM.) (STEPHEN TURNS AND SEES BLOOM.)
STEPHEN: A time, times and half a time. STEPHEN: A time, times and half a time.
(REUBEN I ANTICHRIST, WANDERING JEW, A CLUTCHING HAND OPEN ON HIS SPINE, (REUBEN I ANTICHRIST, WANDERING JEW, A CLUTCHING HAND OPEN ON HIS SPINE,
STUMPS FORWARD. ACROSS HIS LOINS IS SLUNG A PILGRIM'S WALLET FROM WHICH STUMPS FORWARD. ACROSS HIS LOINS IS SLUNG A PILGRIM'S WALLET FROM WHICH
PROTRUDE PROMISSORY NOTES AND DISHONOURED BILLS. ALOFT OVER HIS SHOULDER PROTRUDE PROMISSORY NOTES AND DISHONOURED BILLS. ALOFT OVER HIS SHOULDER
HE BEARS A LONG BOATPOLE FROM THE HOOK OF WHICH THE SODDEN HUDDLED MASS HE BEARS A LONG BOATPOLE FROM THE HOOK OF WHICH THE SODDEN HUDDLED MASS
OF HIS ONLY SON, SAVED FROM LIFFEY WATERS, HANGS FROM THE SLACK OF ITS OF HIS ONLY SON, SAVED FROM LIFFEY WATERS, HANGS FROM THE SLACK OF ITS
BREECHES. A HOBGOBLIN IN THE IMAGE OF PUNCH COSTELLO, HIPSHOT, BREECHES. A HOBGOBLIN IN THE IMAGE OF PUNCH COSTELLO, HIPSHOT,
CROOKBACKED, HYDROCEPHALIC, PROGNATHIC WITH RECEDING FOREHEAD AND ALLY CROOKBACKED, HYDROCEPHALIC, PROGNATHIC WITH RECEDING FOREHEAD AND ALLY
SLOPER NOSE, TUMBLES IN SOMERSAULTS THROUGH THE GATHERING DARKNESS.) SLOPER NOSE, TUMBLES IN SOMERSAULTS THROUGH THE GATHERING DARKNESS.)
ALL: What? ALL: What?
THE HOBGOBLIN: (HIS JAWS CHATTERING, CAPERS TO AND FRO, GOGGLING HIS THE HOBGOBLIN: (HIS JAWS CHATTERING, CAPERS TO AND FRO, GOGGLING HIS
EYES, SQUEAKING, KANGAROOHOPPING WITH OUTSTRETCHED CLUTCHING ARMS, THEN EYES, SQUEAKING, KANGAROOHOPPING WITH OUTSTRETCHED CLUTCHING ARMS, THEN
ALL AT ONCE THRUSTS HIS LIPLESS FACE THROUGH THE FORK OF HIS THIGHS) IL ALL AT ONCE THRUSTS HIS LIPLESS FACE THROUGH THE FORK OF HIS THIGHS) IL
VIENT! C'EST MOI! L'HOMME QUI RIT! L'HOMME PRIMIGENE! (HE WHIRLS ROUND VIENT! C'EST MOI! L'HOMME QUI RIT! L'HOMME PRIMIGENE! (HE WHIRLS ROUND
AND ROUND WITH DERVISH HOWLS) SIEURS ET DAMES, FAITES VOS JEUX! (HE AND ROUND WITH DERVISH HOWLS) SIEURS ET DAMES, FAITES VOS JEUX! (HE
CROUCHES JUGGLING. TINY ROULETTE PLANETS FLY FROM HIS HANDS.) LES JEUX CROUCHES JUGGLING. TINY ROULETTE PLANETS FLY FROM HIS HANDS.) LES JEUX
SONT FAITS! (THE PLANETS RUSH TOGETHER, UTTERING CREPITANT CRACKS) RIEN SONT FAITS! (THE PLANETS RUSH TOGETHER, UTTERING CREPITANT CRACKS) RIEN
VA PLUS! (THE PLANETS, BUOYANT BALLOONS, SAIL SWOLLEN UP AND AWAY. HE VA PLUS! (THE PLANETS, BUOYANT BALLOONS, SAIL SWOLLEN UP AND AWAY. HE
SPRINGS OFF INTO VACUUM.) SPRINGS OFF INTO VACUUM.)
FLORRY: (SINKING INTO TORPOR, CROSSING HERSELF SECRETLY) The end of the FLORRY: (SINKING INTO TORPOR, CROSSING HERSELF SECRETLY) The end of the
world! world!
(A FEMALE TEPID EFFLUVIUM LEAKS OUT FROM HER. NEBULOUS OBSCURITY OCCUPIES (A FEMALE TEPID EFFLUVIUM LEAKS OUT FROM HER. NEBULOUS OBSCURITY OCCUPIES
SPACE. THROUGH THE DRIFTING FOG WITHOUT THE GRAMOPHONE BLARES OVER COUGHS SPACE. THROUGH THE DRIFTING FOG WITHOUT THE GRAMOPHONE BLARES OVER COUGHS
AND FEETSHUFFLING.) AND FEETSHUFFLING.)
THE GRAMOPHONE: Jerusalem! THE GRAMOPHONE: Jerusalem!
Open your gates and sing Open your gates and sing
Hosanna ... Hosanna ...
(A ROCKET RUSHES UP THE SKY AND BURSTS. A WHITE STAR FILLS FROM IT, (A ROCKET RUSHES UP THE SKY AND BURSTS. A WHITE STAR FILLS FROM IT,
PROCLAIMING THE CONSUMMATION OF ALL THINGS AND SECOND COMING OF ELIJAH. PROCLAIMING THE CONSUMMATION OF ALL THINGS AND SECOND COMING OF ELIJAH.
ALONG AN INFINITE INVISIBLE TIGHTROPE TAUT FROM ZENITH TO NADIR THE END ALONG AN INFINITE INVISIBLE TIGHTROPE TAUT FROM ZENITH TO NADIR THE END
OF THE WORLD, A TWOHEADED OCTOPUS IN GILLIE'S KILTS, BUSBY AND TARTAN OF THE WORLD, A TWOHEADED OCTOPUS IN GILLIE'S KILTS, BUSBY AND TARTAN
FILIBEGS, WHIRLS THROUGH THE MURK, HEAD OVER HEELS, IN THE FORM OF THE FILIBEGS, WHIRLS THROUGH THE MURK, HEAD OVER HEELS, IN THE FORM OF THE
THREE LEGS OF MAN.) THREE LEGS OF MAN.)
THE END OF THE WORLD: (WITH A SCOTCH ACCENT) Wha'll dance the keel row, THE END OF THE WORLD: (WITH A SCOTCH ACCENT) Wha'll dance the keel row,
the keel row, the keel row? the keel row, the keel row?
(OVER THE POSSING DRIFT AND CHOKING BREATHCOUGHS, ELIJAH'S VOICE, HARSH (OVER THE POSSING DRIFT AND CHOKING BREATHCOUGHS, ELIJAH'S VOICE, HARSH
AS A CORNCRAKE'S, JARS ON HIGH. PERSPIRING IN A LOOSE LAWN SURPLICE WITH AS A CORNCRAKE'S, JARS ON HIGH. PERSPIRING IN A LOOSE LAWN SURPLICE WITH
FUNNEL SLEEVES HE IS SEEN, VERGERFACED, ABOVE A ROSTRUM ABOUT WHICH THE FUNNEL SLEEVES HE IS SEEN, VERGERFACED, ABOVE A ROSTRUM ABOUT WHICH THE
BANNER OF OLD GLORY IS DRAPED. HE THUMPS THE PARAPET.) BANNER OF OLD GLORY IS DRAPED. HE THUMPS THE PARAPET.)
ELIJAH: No yapping, if you please, in this booth. Jake Crane, Creole Sue, ELIJAH: No yapping, if you please, in this booth. Jake Crane, Creole Sue,
Dove Campbell, Abe Kirschner, do your coughing with your mouths shut. Dove Campbell, Abe Kirschner, do your coughing with your mouths shut.
Say, I am operating all this trunk line. Boys, do it now. God's time is Say, I am operating all this trunk line. Boys, do it now. God's time is
12.25. Tell mother you'll be there. Rush your order and you play a slick 12.25. Tell mother you'll be there. Rush your order and you play a slick
ace. Join on right here. Book through to eternity junction, the nonstop ace. Join on right here. Book through to eternity junction, the nonstop
run. Just one word more. Are you a god or a doggone clod? If the second run. Just one word more. Are you a god or a doggone clod? If the second
advent came to Coney Island are we ready? Florry Christ, Stephen Christ, advent came to Coney Island are we ready? Florry Christ, Stephen Christ,
Zoe Christ, Bloom Christ, Kitty Christ, Lynch Christ, it's up to you to Zoe Christ, Bloom Christ, Kitty Christ, Lynch Christ, it's up to you to
sense that cosmic force. Have we cold feet about the cosmos? No. Be on sense that cosmic force. Have we cold feet about the cosmos? No. Be on
the side of the angels. Be a prism. You have that something within, the the side of the angels. Be a prism. You have that something within, the
higher self. You can rub shoulders with a Jesus, a Gautama, an Ingersoll. higher self. You can rub shoulders with a Jesus, a Gautama, an Ingersoll.
Are you all in this vibration? I say you are. You once nobble that, Are you all in this vibration? I say you are. You once nobble that,
congregation, and a buck joyride to heaven becomes a back number. You got congregation, and a buck joyride to heaven becomes a back number. You got
me? It's a lifebrightener, sure. The hottest stuff ever was. It's the me? It's a lifebrightener, sure. The hottest stuff ever was. It's the
whole pie with jam in. It's just the cutest snappiest line out. It is whole pie with jam in. It's just the cutest snappiest line out. It is
immense, supersumptuous. It restores. It vibrates. I know and I am some immense, supersumptuous. It restores. It vibrates. I know and I am some
vibrator. Joking apart and, getting down to bedrock, A. J. Christ Dowie vibrator. Joking apart and, getting down to bedrock, A. J. Christ Dowie
and the harmonial philosophy, have you got that? O. K. Seventyseven west and the harmonial philosophy, have you got that? O. K. Seventyseven west
sixtyninth street. Got me? That's it. You call me up by sunphone any old sixtyninth street. Got me? That's it. You call me up by sunphone any old
time. Bumboosers, save your stamps. (HE SHOUTS) Now then our glory song. time. Bumboosers, save your stamps. (HE SHOUTS) Now then our glory song.
All join heartily in the singing. Encore! (HE SINGS) Jeru ... All join heartily in the singing. Encore! (HE SINGS) Jeru ...
THE GRAMOPHONE: (DROWNING HIS VOICE) Whorusalaminyourhighhohhhh ... (THE THE GRAMOPHONE: (DROWNING HIS VOICE) Whorusalaminyourhighhohhhh ... (THE
DISC RASPS GRATINGLY AGAINST THE NEEDLE) DISC RASPS GRATINGLY AGAINST THE NEEDLE)
THE THREE WHORES: (COVERING THEIR EARS, SQUAWK) Ahhkkk! THE THREE WHORES: (COVERING THEIR EARS, SQUAWK) Ahhkkk!
ELIJAH: (IN ROLLEDUP SHIRTSLEEVES, BLACK IN THE FACE, SHOUTS AT THE TOP ELIJAH: (IN ROLLEDUP SHIRTSLEEVES, BLACK IN THE FACE, SHOUTS AT THE TOP
OF HIS VOICE, HIS ARMS UPLIFTED) Big Brother up there, Mr President, you OF HIS VOICE, HIS ARMS UPLIFTED) Big Brother up there, Mr President, you
hear what I done just been saying to you. Certainly, I sort of believe hear what I done just been saying to you. Certainly, I sort of believe
strong in you, Mr President. I certainly am thinking now Miss Higgins and strong in you, Mr President. I certainly am thinking now Miss Higgins and
Miss Ricketts got religion way inside them. Certainly seems to me I don't Miss Ricketts got religion way inside them. Certainly seems to me I don't
never see no wusser scared female than the way you been, Miss Florry, never see no wusser scared female than the way you been, Miss Florry,
just now as I done seed you. Mr President, you come long and help me save just now as I done seed you. Mr President, you come long and help me save
our sisters dear. (HE WINKS AT HIS AUDIENCE) Our Mr President, he twig our sisters dear. (HE WINKS AT HIS AUDIENCE) Our Mr President, he twig
the whole lot and he aint saying nothing. the whole lot and he aint saying nothing.
KITTY-KATE: I forgot myself. In a weak moment I erred and did what I did KITTY-KATE: I forgot myself. In a weak moment I erred and did what I did
on Constitution hill. I was confirmed by the bishop and enrolled in the on Constitution hill. I was confirmed by the bishop and enrolled in the
brown scapular. My mother's sister married a Montmorency. It was a brown scapular. My mother's sister married a Montmorency. It was a
working plumber was my ruination when I was pure. working plumber was my ruination when I was pure.
ZOE-FANNY: I let him larrup it into me for the fun of it. ZOE-FANNY: I let him larrup it into me for the fun of it.
FLORRY-TERESA: It was in consequence of a portwine beverage on top of FLORRY-TERESA: It was in consequence of a portwine beverage on top of
Hennessy's three star. I was guilty with Whelan when he slipped into the Hennessy's three star. I was guilty with Whelan when he slipped into the
bed. bed.
STEPHEN: In the beginning was the word, in the end the world without end. STEPHEN: In the beginning was the word, in the end the world without end.
Blessed be the eight beatitudes. Blessed be the eight beatitudes.
(THE BEATITUDES, DIXON, MADDEN, CROTTHERS, COSTELLO, LENEHAN, BANNON, (THE BEATITUDES, DIXON, MADDEN, CROTTHERS, COSTELLO, LENEHAN, BANNON,
MULLIGAN AND LYNCH IN WHITE SURGICAL STUDENTS' GOWNS, FOUR ABREAST, MULLIGAN AND LYNCH IN WHITE SURGICAL STUDENTS' GOWNS, FOUR ABREAST,
GOOSESTEPPING, TRAMP FIST PAST IN NOISY MARCHING) GOOSESTEPPING, TRAMP FIST PAST IN NOISY MARCHING)
THE BEATITUDES: (INCOHERENTLY) Beer beef battledog buybull businum barnum THE BEATITUDES: (INCOHERENTLY) Beer beef battledog buybull businum barnum
buggerum bishop. buggerum bishop.
LYSTER: (IN QUAKERGREY KNEEBREECHES AND BROADBRIMMED HAT, SAYS LYSTER: (IN QUAKERGREY KNEEBREECHES AND BROADBRIMMED HAT, SAYS
DISCREETLY) He is our friend. I need not mention names. Seek thou the DISCREETLY) He is our friend. I need not mention names. Seek thou the
light. light.
(HE CORANTOS BY. BEST ENTERS IN HAIRDRESSER'S ATTIRE, SHINILY LAUNDERED, (HE CORANTOS BY. BEST ENTERS IN HAIRDRESSER'S ATTIRE, SHINILY LAUNDERED,
HIS LOCKS IN CURLPAPERS. HE LEADS JOHN EGLINTON WHO WEARS A MANDARIN'S HIS LOCKS IN CURLPAPERS. HE LEADS JOHN EGLINTON WHO WEARS A MANDARIN'S
KIMONO OF NANKEEN YELLOW, LIZARDLETTERED, AND A HIGH PAGODA HAT.) KIMONO OF NANKEEN YELLOW, LIZARDLETTERED, AND A HIGH PAGODA HAT.)
BEST: (SMILING, LIFTS THE HAT AND DISPLAYS A SHAVEN POLL FROM THE CROWN BEST: (SMILING, LIFTS THE HAT AND DISPLAYS A SHAVEN POLL FROM THE CROWN
OF WHICH BRISTLES A PIGTAIL TOUPEE TIED WITH AN ORANGE TOPKNOT) I was OF WHICH BRISTLES A PIGTAIL TOUPEE TIED WITH AN ORANGE TOPKNOT) I was
just beautifying him, don't you know. A thing of beauty, don't you know, just beautifying him, don't you know. A thing of beauty, don't you know,
Yeats says, or I mean, Keats says. Yeats says, or I mean, Keats says.
JOHN EGLINTON: (PRODUCES A GREENCAPPED DARK LANTERN AND FLASHES IT JOHN EGLINTON: (PRODUCES A GREENCAPPED DARK LANTERN AND FLASHES IT
TOWARDS A CORNER: WITH CARPING ACCENT) Esthetics and cosmetics are for TOWARDS A CORNER: WITH CARPING ACCENT) Esthetics and cosmetics are for
the boudoir. I am out for truth. Plain truth for a plain man. Tanderagee the boudoir. I am out for truth. Plain truth for a plain man. Tanderagee
wants the facts and means to get them. wants the facts and means to get them.
(IN THE CONE OF THE SEARCHLIGHT BEHIND THE COALSCUTTLE, OLLAVE, HOLYEYED, (IN THE CONE OF THE SEARCHLIGHT BEHIND THE COALSCUTTLE, OLLAVE, HOLYEYED,
THE BEARDED FIGURE OF MANANAUN MACLIR BROODS, CHIN ON KNEES. HE RISES THE BEARDED FIGURE OF MANANAUN MACLIR BROODS, CHIN ON KNEES. HE RISES
SLOWLY. A COLD SEAWIND BLOWS FROM HIS DRUID MOUTH. ABOUT HIS HEAD WRITHE SLOWLY. A COLD SEAWIND BLOWS FROM HIS DRUID MOUTH. ABOUT HIS HEAD WRITHE
EELS AND ELVERS. HE IS ENCRUSTED WITH WEEDS AND SHELLS. HIS RIGHT HAND EELS AND ELVERS. HE IS ENCRUSTED WITH WEEDS AND SHELLS. HIS RIGHT HAND
HOLDS A BICYCLE PUMP. HIS LEFT HAND GRASPS A HUGE CRAYFISH BY ITS TWO HOLDS A BICYCLE PUMP. HIS LEFT HAND GRASPS A HUGE CRAYFISH BY ITS TWO
TALONS.) TALONS.)
MANANAUN MACLIR: (WITH A VOICE OF WAVES) Aum! Hek! Wal! Ak! Lub! Mor! Ma! MANANAUN MACLIR: (WITH A VOICE OF WAVES) Aum! Hek! Wal! Ak! Lub! Mor! Ma!
White yoghin of the gods. Occult pimander of Hermes Trismegistos. (WITH A White yoghin of the gods. Occult pimander of Hermes Trismegistos. (WITH A
VOICE OF WHISTLING SEAWIND) Punarjanam patsypunjaub! I won't have my leg VOICE OF WHISTLING SEAWIND) Punarjanam patsypunjaub! I won't have my leg
pulled. It has been said by one: beware the left, the cult of Shakti. pulled. It has been said by one: beware the left, the cult of Shakti.
(WITH A CRY OF STORMBIRDS) Shakti Shiva, darkhidden Father! (HE SMITES (WITH A CRY OF STORMBIRDS) Shakti Shiva, darkhidden Father! (HE SMITES
WITH HIS BICYCLE PUMP THE CRAYFISH IN HIS LEFT HAND. ON ITS COOPERATIVE WITH HIS BICYCLE PUMP THE CRAYFISH IN HIS LEFT HAND. ON ITS COOPERATIVE
DIAL GLOW THE TWELVE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC. HE WAILS WITH THE VEHEMENCE OF DIAL GLOW THE TWELVE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC. HE WAILS WITH THE VEHEMENCE OF
THE OCEAN.) Aum! Baum! Pyjaum! I am the light of the homestead! I am the THE OCEAN.) Aum! Baum! Pyjaum! I am the light of the homestead! I am the
dreamery creamery butter. dreamery creamery butter.
(A SKELETON JUDASHAND STRANGLES THE LIGHT. THE GREEN LIGHT WANES TO (A SKELETON JUDASHAND STRANGLES THE LIGHT. THE GREEN LIGHT WANES TO
MAUVE. THE GASJET WAILS WHISTLING.) MAUVE. THE GASJET WAILS WHISTLING.)
THE GASJET: Pooah! Pfuiiiiiii! THE GASJET: Pooah! Pfuiiiiiii!
(ZOE RUNS TO THE CHANDELIER AND, CROOKING HER LEG, ADJUSTS THE MANTLE.) (ZOE RUNS TO THE CHANDELIER AND, CROOKING HER LEG, ADJUSTS THE MANTLE.)
ZOE: Who has a fag as I'm here? ZOE: Who has a fag as I'm here?
LYNCH: (TOSSING A CIGARETTE ON TO THE TABLE) Here. LYNCH: (TOSSING A CIGARETTE ON TO THE TABLE) Here.
ZOE: (HER HEAD PERCHED ASIDE IN MOCK PRIDE) Is that the way to hand the ZOE: (HER HEAD PERCHED ASIDE IN MOCK PRIDE) Is that the way to hand the
POT to a lady? (SHE STRETCHES UP TO LIGHT THE CIGARETTE OVER THE FLAME, POT to a lady? (SHE STRETCHES UP TO LIGHT THE CIGARETTE OVER THE FLAME,
TWIRLING IT SLOWLY, SHOWING THE BROWN TUFTS OF HER ARMPITS. LYNCH WITH TWIRLING IT SLOWLY, SHOWING THE BROWN TUFTS OF HER ARMPITS. LYNCH WITH
HIS POKER LIFTS BOLDLY A SIDE OF HER SLIP. BARE FROM HER GARTERS UP HER HIS POKER LIFTS BOLDLY A SIDE OF HER SLIP. BARE FROM HER GARTERS UP HER
FLESH APPEARS UNDER THE SAPPHIRE A NIXIE'S GREEN. SHE PUFFS CALMLY AT HER FLESH APPEARS UNDER THE SAPPHIRE A NIXIE'S GREEN. SHE PUFFS CALMLY AT HER
CIGARETTE.) Can you see the beautyspot of my behind? CIGARETTE.) Can you see the beautyspot of my behind?
LYNCH: I'm not looking LYNCH: I'm not looking
ZOE: (MAKES SHEEP'S EYES) No? You wouldn't do a less thing. Would you ZOE: (MAKES SHEEP'S EYES) No? You wouldn't do a less thing. Would you
suck a lemon? suck a lemon?
(SQUINTING IN MOCK SHAME SHE GLANCES WITH SIDELONG MEANING AT BLOOM, THEN (SQUINTING IN MOCK SHAME SHE GLANCES WITH SIDELONG MEANING AT BLOOM, THEN
TWISTS ROUND TOWARDS HIM, PULLING HER SLIP FREE OF THE POKER. BLUE FLUID TWISTS ROUND TOWARDS HIM, PULLING HER SLIP FREE OF THE POKER. BLUE FLUID
AGAIN FLOWS OVER HER FLESH. BLOOM STANDS, SMILING DESIROUSLY, TWIRLING AGAIN FLOWS OVER HER FLESH. BLOOM STANDS, SMILING DESIROUSLY, TWIRLING
HIS THUMBS. KITTY RICKETTS LICKS HER MIDDLE FINGER WITH HER SPITTLE AND, HIS THUMBS. KITTY RICKETTS LICKS HER MIDDLE FINGER WITH HER SPITTLE AND,
GAZING IN THE MIRROR, SMOOTHS BOTH EYEBROWS. LIPOTI VIRAG, GAZING IN THE MIRROR, SMOOTHS BOTH EYEBROWS. LIPOTI VIRAG,
May evening, the wellremembered grove of lilacs at Roundtown, purple and May evening, the wellremembered grove of lilacs at Roundtown, purple and
white, fragrant slender spectators of the game but with much real white, fragrant slender spectators of the game but with much real
interest in the pellets as they run slowly forward over the sward or interest in the pellets as they run slowly forward over the sward or
collide and stop, one by its fellow, with a brief alert shock. And yonder collide and stop, one by its fellow, with a brief alert shock. And yonder
about that grey urn where the water moves at times in thoughtful about that grey urn where the water moves at times in thoughtful
irrigation you saw another as fragrant sisterhood, Floey, Atty, Tiny and irrigation you saw another as fragrant sisterhood, Floey, Atty, Tiny and
their darker friend with I know not what of arresting in her pose then, their darker friend with I know not what of arresting in her pose then,
Our Lady of the Cherries, a comely brace of them pendent from an ear, Our Lady of the Cherries, a comely brace of them pendent from an ear,
bringing out the foreign warmth of the skin so daintily against the cool bringing out the foreign warmth of the skin so daintily against the cool
ardent fruit. A lad of four or five in linseywoolsey (blossomtime but ardent fruit. A lad of four or five in linseywoolsey (blossomtime but
there will be cheer in the kindly hearth when ere long the bowls are there will be cheer in the kindly hearth when ere long the bowls are
gathered and hutched) is standing on the urn secured by that circle of gathered and hutched) is standing on the urn secured by that circle of
girlish fond hands. He frowns a little just as this young man does now girlish fond hands. He frowns a little just as this young man does now
with a perhaps too conscious enjoyment of the danger but must needs with a perhaps too conscious enjoyment of the danger but must needs
glance at whiles towards where his mother watches from the PIAZZETTA glance at whiles towards where his mother watches from the PIAZZETTA
giving upon the flowerclose with a faint shadow of remoteness or of giving upon the flowerclose with a faint shadow of remoteness or of
reproach (ALLES VERGANGLICHE) in her glad look. reproach (ALLES VERGANGLICHE) in her glad look.
Mark this farther and remember. The end comes suddenly. Enter that Mark this farther and remember. The end comes suddenly. Enter that
antechamber of birth where the studious are assembled and note their antechamber of birth where the studious are assembled and note their
faces. Nothing, as it seems, there of rash or violent. Quietude of faces. Nothing, as it seems, there of rash or violent. Quietude of
custody, rather, befitting their station in that house, the vigilant custody, rather, befitting their station in that house, the vigilant
watch of shepherds and of angels about a crib in Bethlehem of Juda long watch of shepherds and of angels about a crib in Bethlehem of Juda long
ago. But as before the lightning the serried stormclouds, heavy with ago. But as before the lightning the serried stormclouds, heavy with
preponderant excess of moisture, in swollen masses turgidly distended, preponderant excess of moisture, in swollen masses turgidly distended,
compass earth and sky in one vast slumber, impending above parched field compass earth and sky in one vast slumber, impending above parched field
and drowsy oxen and blighted growth of shrub and verdure till in an and drowsy oxen and blighted growth of shrub and verdure till in an
instant a flash rives their centres and with the reverberation of the instant a flash rives their centres and with the reverberation of the
thunder the cloudburst pours its torrent, so and not otherwise was the thunder the cloudburst pours its torrent, so and not otherwise was the
transformation, violent and instantaneous, upon the utterance of the transformation, violent and instantaneous, upon the utterance of the
word. word.
Burke's! outflings my lord Stephen, giving the cry, and a tag and bobtail Burke's! outflings my lord Stephen, giving the cry, and a tag and bobtail
of all them after, cockerel, jackanapes, welsher, pilldoctor, punctual of all them after, cockerel, jackanapes, welsher, pilldoctor, punctual
Bloom at heels with a universal grabbing at headgear, ashplants, bilbos, Bloom at heels with a universal grabbing at headgear, ashplants, bilbos,
Panama hats and scabbards, Zermatt alpenstocks and what not. A dedale of Panama hats and scabbards, Zermatt alpenstocks and what not. A dedale of
lusty youth, noble every student there. Nurse Callan taken aback in the lusty youth, noble every student there. Nurse Callan taken aback in the
hallway cannot stay them nor smiling surgeon coming downstairs with news hallway cannot stay them nor smiling surgeon coming downstairs with news
of placentation ended, a full pound if a milligramme. They hark him on. of placentation ended, a full pound if a milligramme. They hark him on.
The door! It is open? Ha! They are out, tumultuously, off for a minute's The door! It is open? Ha! They are out, tumultuously, off for a minute's
race, all bravely legging it, Burke's of Denzille and Holles their race, all bravely legging it, Burke's of Denzille and Holles their
ulterior goal. Dixon follows giving them sharp language but raps out an ulterior goal. Dixon follows giving them sharp language but raps out an
oath, he too, and on. Bloom stays with nurse a thought to send a kind oath, he too, and on. Bloom stays with nurse a thought to send a kind
word to happy mother and nurseling up there. Doctor Diet and Doctor word to happy mother and nurseling up there. Doctor Diet and Doctor
Quiet. Looks she too not other now? Ward of watching in Horne's house has Quiet. Looks she too not other now? Ward of watching in Horne's house has
told its tale in that washedout pallor. Then all being gone, a glance of told its tale in that washedout pallor. Then all being gone, a glance of
motherwit helping, he whispers close in going: Madam, when comes the motherwit helping, he whispers close in going: Madam, when comes the
storkbird for thee? storkbird for thee?
The air without is impregnated with raindew moisture, life essence The air without is impregnated with raindew moisture, life essence
celestial, glistening on Dublin stone there under starshiny COELUM. God's celestial, glistening on Dublin stone there under starshiny COELUM. God's
air, the Allfather's air, scintillant circumambient cessile air. Breathe air, the Allfather's air, scintillant circumambient cessile air. Breathe
it deep into thee. By heaven, Theodore Purefoy, thou hast done a doughty it deep into thee. By heaven, Theodore Purefoy, thou hast done a doughty
deed and no botch! Thou art, I vow, the remarkablest progenitor barring deed and no botch! Thou art, I vow, the remarkablest progenitor barring
none in this chaffering allincluding most farraginous chronicle. none in this chaffering allincluding most farraginous chronicle.
Astounding! In her lay a Godframed Godgiven preformed possibility which Astounding! In her lay a Godframed Godgiven preformed possibility which
thou hast fructified with thy modicum of man's work. Cleave to her! thou hast fructified with thy modicum of man's work. Cleave to her!
Serve! Toil on, labour like a very bandog and let scholarment and all Serve! Toil on, labour like a very bandog and let scholarment and all
Malthusiasts go hang. Thou art all their daddies, Theodore. Art drooping Malthusiasts go hang. Thou art all their daddies, Theodore. Art drooping
under thy load, bemoiled with butcher's bills at home and ingots (not under thy load, bemoiled with butcher's bills at home and ingots (not
thine!) in the countinghouse? Head up! For every newbegotten thou shalt thine!) in the countinghouse? Head up! For every newbegotten thou shalt
gather thy homer of ripe wheat. See, thy fleece is drenched. Dost envy gather thy homer of ripe wheat. See, thy fleece is drenched. Dost envy
Darby Dullman there with his Joan? A canting jay and a rheumeyed curdog Darby Dullman there with his Joan? A canting jay and a rheumeyed curdog
is all their progeny. Pshaw, I tell thee! He is a mule, a dead is all their progeny. Pshaw, I tell thee! He is a mule, a dead
gasteropod, without vim or stamina, not worth a cracked kreutzer. gasteropod, without vim or stamina, not worth a cracked kreutzer.
Copulation without population! No, say I! Herod's slaughter of the Copulation without population! No, say I! Herod's slaughter of the
innocents were the truer name. Vegetables, forsooth, and sterile innocents were the truer name. Vegetables, forsooth, and sterile
cohabitation! Give her beefsteaks, red, raw, bleeding! She is a hoary cohabitation! Give her beefsteaks, red, raw, bleeding! She is a hoary
pandemonium of ills, enlarged glands, mumps, quinsy, bunions, hayfever, pandemonium of ills, enlarged glands, mumps, quinsy, bunions, hayfever,
bedsores, ringworm, floating kidney, Derbyshire neck, warts, bilious bedsores, ringworm, floating kidney, Derbyshire neck, warts, bilious
attacks, gallstones, cold feet, varicose veins. A truce to threnes and attacks, gallstones, cold feet, varicose veins. A truce to threnes and
trentals and jeremies and all such congenital defunctive music! Twenty trentals and jeremies and all such congenital defunctive music! Twenty
years of it, regret them not. With thee it was not as with many that will years of it, regret them not. With thee it was not as with many that will
and would and wait and never--do. Thou sawest thy America, thy lifetask, and would and wait and never--do. Thou sawest thy America, thy lifetask,
and didst charge to cover like the transpontine bison. How saith and didst charge to cover like the transpontine bison. How saith
Zarathustra? DEINE KUH TRUBSAL MELKEST DU. NUN TRINKST DU DIE SUSSE MILCH Zarathustra? DEINE KUH TRUBSAL MELKEST DU. NUN TRINKST DU DIE SUSSE MILCH
DES EUTERS. See! it displodes for thee in abundance. Drink, man, an DES EUTERS. See! it displodes for thee in abundance. Drink, man, an
udderful! Mother's milk, Purefoy, the milk of human kin, milk too of udderful! Mother's milk, Purefoy, the milk of human kin, milk too of
those burgeoning stars overhead rutilant in thin rainvapour, punch milk, those burgeoning stars overhead rutilant in thin rainvapour, punch milk,
such as those rioters will quaff in their guzzling den, milk of madness, such as those rioters will quaff in their guzzling den, milk of madness,
the honeymilk of Canaan's land. Thy cow's dug was tough, what? Ay, but the honeymilk of Canaan's land. Thy cow's dug was tough, what? Ay, but
her milk is hot and sweet and fattening. No dollop this but thick rich her milk is hot and sweet and fattening. No dollop this but thick rich
bonnyclaber. To her, old patriarch! Pap! PER DEAM PARTULAM ET PERTUNDAM bonnyclaber. To her, old patriarch! Pap! PER DEAM PARTULAM ET PERTUNDAM
NUNC EST BIBENDUM! NUNC EST BIBENDUM!
All off for a buster, armstrong, hollering down the street. Bonafides. All off for a buster, armstrong, hollering down the street. Bonafides.
Where you slep las nigh? Timothy of the battered naggin. Like ole Billyo. Where you slep las nigh? Timothy of the battered naggin. Like ole Billyo.
Any brollies or gumboots in the fambly? Where the Henry Nevil's sawbones Any brollies or gumboots in the fambly? Where the Henry Nevil's sawbones
and ole clo? Sorra one o' me knows. Hurrah there, Dix! Forward to the and ole clo? Sorra one o' me knows. Hurrah there, Dix! Forward to the
ribbon counter. Where's Punch? All serene. Jay, look at the drunken ribbon counter. Where's Punch? All serene. Jay, look at the drunken
minister coming out of the maternity hospal! BENEDICAT VOS OMNIPOTENS minister coming out of the maternity hospal! BENEDICAT VOS OMNIPOTENS
DEUS, PATER ET FILIUS. A make, mister. The Denzille lane boys. Hell, DEUS, PATER ET FILIUS. A make, mister. The Denzille lane boys. Hell,
blast ye! Scoot. Righto, Isaacs, shove em out of the bleeding limelight. blast ye! Scoot. Righto, Isaacs, shove em out of the bleeding limelight.
Yous join uz, dear sir? No hentrusion in life. Lou heap good man. Allee Yous join uz, dear sir? No hentrusion in life. Lou heap good man. Allee
samee dis bunch. EN AVANT, MES ENFANTS! Fire away number one on the gun. samee dis bunch. EN AVANT, MES ENFANTS! Fire away number one on the gun.
Burke's! Burke's! Thence they advanced five parasangs. Slattery's mounted Burke's! Burke's! Thence they advanced five parasangs. Slattery's mounted
foot. Where's that bleeding awfur? Parson Steve, apostates' creed! No, foot. Where's that bleeding awfur? Parson Steve, apostates' creed! No,
no, Mulligan! Abaft there! Shove ahead. Keep a watch on the clock. no, Mulligan! Abaft there! Shove ahead. Keep a watch on the clock.
Chuckingout time. Mullee! What's on you? MA MERE M'A MARIEE. British Chuckingout time. Mullee! What's on you? MA MERE M'A MARIEE. British
Beatitudes! RETAMPLATAN DIGIDI BOUMBOUM. Ayes have it. To be printed and Beatitudes! RETAMPLATAN DIGIDI BOUMBOUM. Ayes have it. To be printed and
bound at the Druiddrum press by two designing females. Calf covers of bound at the Druiddrum press by two designing females. Calf covers of
pissedon green. Last word in art shades. Most beautiful book come out of pissedon green. Last word in art shades. Most beautiful book come out of
My heart's broke eating dripping. They like buttering themselves in and My heart's broke eating dripping. They like buttering themselves in and
out. Molly tasting it, her veil up. Sister? Pat Claffey, the pawnbroker's out. Molly tasting it, her veil up. Sister? Pat Claffey, the pawnbroker's
daughter. It was a nun they say invented barbed wire. daughter. It was a nun they say invented barbed wire.
He crossed Westmoreland street when apostrophe S had plodded by. He crossed Westmoreland street when apostrophe S had plodded by.
Rover cycleshop. Those races are on today. How long ago is that? Year Rover cycleshop. Those races are on today. How long ago is that? Year
Phil Gilligan died. We were in Lombard street west. Wait: was in Thom's. Phil Gilligan died. We were in Lombard street west. Wait: was in Thom's.
Got the job in Wisdom Hely's year we married. Six years. Ten years ago: Got the job in Wisdom Hely's year we married. Six years. Ten years ago:
ninetyfour he died yes that's right the big fire at Arnott's. Val Dillon ninetyfour he died yes that's right the big fire at Arnott's. Val Dillon
was lord mayor. The Glencree dinner. Alderman Robert O'Reilly emptying the was lord mayor. The Glencree dinner. Alderman Robert O'Reilly emptying the
port into his soup before the flag fell. Bobbob lapping it for the inner port into his soup before the flag fell. Bobbob lapping it for the inner
alderman. Couldn't hear what the band played. For what we have already alderman. Couldn't hear what the band played. For what we have already
received may the Lord make us. Milly was a kiddy then. Molly had that received may the Lord make us. Milly was a kiddy then. Molly had that
elephantgrey dress with the braided frogs. Mantailored with selfcovered elephantgrey dress with the braided frogs. Mantailored with selfcovered
buttons. She didn't like it because I sprained my ankle first day she wore buttons. She didn't like it because I sprained my ankle first day she wore
choir picnic at the Sugarloaf. As if that. Old Goodwin's tall hat done up choir picnic at the Sugarloaf. As if that. Old Goodwin's tall hat done up
with some sticky stuff. Flies' picnic too. Never put a dress on her back with some sticky stuff. Flies' picnic too. Never put a dress on her back
like it. Fitted her like a glove, shoulders and hips. Just beginning to like it. Fitted her like a glove, shoulders and hips. Just beginning to
plump it out well. Rabbitpie we had that day. People looking after her. plump it out well. Rabbitpie we had that day. People looking after her.
Happy. Happier then. Snug little room that was with the red Happy. Happier then. Snug little room that was with the red
wallpaper. Dockrell's, one and ninepence a dozen. Milly's tubbing night. wallpaper. Dockrell's, one and ninepence a dozen. Milly's tubbing night.
American soap I bought: elderflower. Cosy smell of her bathwater. Funny American soap I bought: elderflower. Cosy smell of her bathwater. Funny
she looked soaped all over. Shapely too. Now photography. Poor papa's she looked soaped all over. Shapely too. Now photography. Poor papa's
daguerreotype atelier he told me of. Hereditary taste. daguerreotype atelier he told me of. Hereditary taste.
He walked along the curbstone. He walked along the curbstone.
Stream of life. What was the name of that priestylooking chap was Stream of life. What was the name of that priestylooking chap was
always squinting in when he passed? Weak eyes, woman. Stopped in always squinting in when he passed? Weak eyes, woman. Stopped in
Citron's saint Kevin's parade. Pen something. Pendennis? My memory is Citron's saint Kevin's parade. Pen something. Pendennis? My memory is
getting. Pen ...? Of course it's years ago. Noise of the trams probably. getting. Pen ...? Of course it's years ago. Noise of the trams probably.
Well, if he couldn't remember the dayfather's name that he sees every day. Well, if he couldn't remember the dayfather's name that he sees every day.
Bartell d'Arcy was the tenor, just coming out then. Seeing her home Bartell d'Arcy was the tenor, just coming out then. Seeing her home
after practice. Conceited fellow with his waxedup moustache. Gave her that after practice. Conceited fellow with his waxedup moustache. Gave her that
song WINDS THAT BLOW FROM THE SOUTH. song WINDS THAT BLOW FROM THE SOUTH.
Windy night that was I went to fetch her there was that lodge meeting Windy night that was I went to fetch her there was that lodge meeting
on about those lottery tickets after Goodwin's concert in the supperroom on about those lottery tickets after Goodwin's concert in the supperroom
or oakroom of the Mansion house. He and I behind. Sheet of her music blew or oakroom of the Mansion house. He and I behind. Sheet of her music blew
out of my hand against the High school railings. Lucky it didn't. Thing out of my hand against the High school railings. Lucky it didn't. Thing
like that spoils the effect of a night for her. Professor Goodwin linking like that spoils the effect of a night for her. Professor Goodwin linking
her in front. Shaky on his pins, poor old sot. His farewell concerts. her in front. Shaky on his pins, poor old sot. His farewell concerts.
Positively last appearance on any stage. May be for months and may be for Positively last appearance on any stage. May be for months and may be for
never. Remember her laughing at the wind, her blizzard collar up. Corner never. Remember her laughing at the wind, her blizzard collar up. Corner
of Harcourt road remember that gust. Brrfoo! Blew up all her skirts and of Harcourt road remember that gust. Brrfoo! Blew up all her skirts and
her boa nearly smothered old Goodwin. She did get flushed in the wind. her boa nearly smothered old Goodwin. She did get flushed in the wind.
Remember when we got home raking up the fire and frying up those pieces Remember when we got home raking up the fire and frying up those pieces
of lap of mutton for her supper with the Chutney sauce she liked. And the of lap of mutton for her supper with the Chutney sauce she liked. And the
mulled rum. Could see her in the bedroom from the hearth unclamping the mulled rum. Could see her in the bedroom from the hearth unclamping the
busk of her stays: white. busk of her stays: white.
Swish and soft flop her stays made on the bed. Always warm from Swish and soft flop her stays made on the bed. Always warm from
her. Always liked to let her self out. Sitting there after till near two her. Always liked to let her self out. Sitting there after till near two
taking out her hairpins. Milly tucked up in beddyhouse. Happy. Happy. taking out her hairpins. Milly tucked up in beddyhouse. Happy. Happy.
That was the night ... That was the night ...
--O, Mr Bloom, how do you do? --O, Mr Bloom, how do you do?
--O, how do you do, Mrs Breen? --O, how do you do, Mrs Breen?
--No use complaining. How is Molly those times? Haven't seen her for ages. --No use complaining. How is Molly those times? Haven't seen her for ages.
--In the pink, Mr Bloom said gaily. Milly has a position down in --In the pink, Mr Bloom said gaily. Milly has a position down in
Mullingar, you know. Mullingar, you know.
--Go away! Isn't that grand for her? --Go away! Isn't that grand for her?
--Yes. In a photographer's there. Getting on like a house on fire. How are --Yes. In a photographer's there. Getting on like a house on fire. How are
all your charges? all your charges?
--All on the baker's list, Mrs Breen said. --All on the baker's list, Mrs Breen said.
How many has she? No other in sight. How many has she? No other in sight.
--You're in black, I see. You have no ... --You're in black, I see. You have no ...
--No, Mr Bloom said. I have just come from a funeral. --No, Mr Bloom said. I have just come from a funeral.
Going to crop up all day, I foresee. Who's dead, when and what did Going to crop up all day, I foresee. Who's dead, when and what did
he die of? Turn up like a bad penny. he die of? Turn up like a bad penny.
--O, dear me, Mrs Breen said. I hope it wasn't any near relation. --O, dear me, Mrs Breen said. I hope it wasn't any near relation.
May as well get her sympathy. May as well get her sympathy.
--Dignam, Mr Bloom said. An old friend of mine. He died quite suddenly, --Dignam, Mr Bloom said. An old friend of mine. He died quite suddenly,
poor fellow. Heart trouble, I believe. Funeral was this morning. poor fellow. Heart trouble, I believe. Funeral was this morning.
    YOUR FUNERAL'S TOMORROW     YOUR FUNERAL'S TOMORROW
    WHILE YOU'RE COMING THROUGH THE RYE.     WHILE YOU'RE COMING THROUGH THE RYE.
    DIDDLEDIDDLE DUMDUM     DIDDLEDIDDLE DUMDUM
    DIDDLEDIDDLE ...     DIDDLEDIDDLE ...
--Sad to lose the old friends, Mrs Breen's womaneyes said melancholily. --Sad to lose the old friends, Mrs Breen's womaneyes said melancholily.
Now that's quite enough about that. Just: quietly: husband. Now that's quite enough about that. Just: quietly: husband.
--And your lord and master? --And your lord and master?
Mrs Breen turned up her two large eyes. Hasn't lost them anyhow. Mrs Breen turned up her two large eyes. Hasn't lost them anyhow.
--O, don't be talking! she said. He's a caution to rattlesnakes. He's in --O, don't be talking! she said. He's a caution to rattlesnakes. He's in
there now with his lawbooks finding out the law of libel. He has me there now with his lawbooks finding out the law of libel. He has me
heartscalded. Wait till I show you. heartscalded. Wait till I show you.
Hot mockturtle vapour and steam of newbaked jampuffs rolypoly Hot mockturtle vapour and steam of newbaked jampuffs rolypoly
poured out from Harrison's. The heavy noonreek tickled the top of Mr poured out from Harrison's. The heavy noonreek tickled the top of Mr
Bloom's gullet. Want to make good pastry, butter, best flour, Demerara Bloom's gullet. Want to make good pastry, butter, best flour, Demerara
sugar, or they'd taste it with the hot tea. Or is it from her? A barefoot sugar, or they'd taste it with the hot tea. Or is it from her? A barefoot
arab stood over the grating, breathing in the fumes. Deaden the gnaw of arab stood over the grating, breathing in the fumes. Deaden the gnaw of
hunger that way. Pleasure or pain is it? Penny dinner. Knife and fork hunger that way. Pleasure or pain is it? Penny dinner. Knife and fork
chained to the table. chained to the table.
Opening her handbag, chipped leather. Hatpin: ought to have a Opening her handbag, chipped leather. Hatpin: ought to have a
guard on those things. Stick it in a chap's eye in the tram. Rummaging. guard on those things. Stick it in a chap's eye in the tram. Rummaging.
Open. Money. Please take one. Devils if they lose sixpence. Raise Cain. Open. Money. Please take one. Devils if they lose sixpence. Raise Cain.
Husband barging. Where's the ten shillings I gave you on Monday? Are Husband barging. Where's the ten shillings I gave you on Monday? Are
you feeding your little brother's family? Soiled handkerchief: you feeding your little brother's family? Soiled handkerchief:
medicinebottle. Pastille that was fell. What is she? ... medicinebottle. Pastille that was fell. What is she? ...
--There must be a new moon out, she said. He's always bad then. Do you --There must be a new moon out, she said. He's always bad then. Do you
know what he did last night? know what he did last night?
Her hand ceased to rummage. Her eyes fixed themselves on him, wide Her hand ceased to rummage. Her eyes fixed themselves on him, wide
in alarm, yet smiling. in alarm, yet smiling.
--What? Mr Bloom asked. --What? Mr Bloom asked.
Let her speak. Look straight in her eyes. I believe you. Trust me. Let her speak. Look straight in her eyes. I believe you. Trust me.
--Woke me up in the night, she said. Dream he had, a nightmare. --Woke me up in the night, she said. Dream he had, a nightmare.
Indiges. Indiges.
--Said the ace of spades was walking up the stairs. --Said the ace of spades was walking up the stairs.
--The ace of spades! Mr Bloom said. --The ace of spades! Mr Bloom said.
She took a folded postcard from her handbag. She took a folded postcard from her handbag.
--Read that, she said. He got it this morning. --Read that, she said. He got it this morning.
--What is it? Mr Bloom asked, taking the card. U.P.? --What is it? Mr Bloom asked, taking the card. U.P.?
--U.P.: up, she said. Someone taking a rise out of him. It's a great shame --U.P.: up, she said. Someone taking a rise out of him. It's a great shame
for them whoever he is. for them whoever he is.
--Indeed it is, Mr Bloom said. --Indeed it is, Mr Bloom said.
She took back the card, sighing. She took back the card, sighing.
--And now he's going round to Mr Menton's office. He's going to take an --And now he's going round to Mr Menton's office. He's going to take an
action for ten thousand pounds, he says. action for ten thousand pounds, he says.
She folded the card into her untidy bag and snapped the catch. She folded the card into her untidy bag and snapped the catch.
Same blue serge dress she had two years ago, the nap bleaching. Seen Same blue serge dress she had two years ago, the nap bleaching. Seen
its best days. Wispish hair over her ears. And that dowdy toque: three old its best days. Wispish hair over her ears. And that dowdy toque: three old
grapes to take the harm out of it. Shabby genteel. She used to be a tasty grapes to take the harm out of it. Shabby genteel. She used to be a tasty
dresser. Lines round her mouth. Only a year or so older than Molly. dresser. Lines round her mouth. Only a year or so older than Molly.
See the eye that woman gave her, passing. Cruel. The unfair sex. See the eye that woman gave her, passing. Cruel. The unfair sex.
He looked still at her, holding back behind his look his discontent. He looked still at her, holding back behind his look his discontent.
Pungent mockturtle oxtail mulligatawny. I'm hungry too. Flakes of pastry Pungent mockturtle oxtail mulligatawny. I'm hungry too. Flakes of pastry
on the gusset of her dress: daub of sugary flour stuck to her cheek. on the gusset of her dress: daub of sugary flour stuck to her cheek.
Rhubarb tart with liberal fillings, rich fruit interior. Josie Powell that Rhubarb tart with liberal fillings, rich fruit interior. Josie Powell that
was. In Luke Doyle's long ago. Dolphin's Barn, the charades. U.P.: up. was. In Luke Doyle's long ago. Dolphin's Barn, the charades. U.P.: up.
Change the subject. Change the subject.
--Do you ever see anything of Mrs Beaufoy? Mr Bloom asked. --Do you ever see anything of Mrs Beaufoy? Mr Bloom asked.
--Mina Purefoy? she said. --Mina Purefoy? she said.
Philip Beaufoy I was thinking. Playgoers' Club. Matcham often Philip Beaufoy I was thinking. Playgoers' Club. Matcham often
thinks of the masterstroke. Did I pull the chain? Yes. The last act. thinks of the masterstroke. Did I pull the chain? Yes. The last act.
--Yes. --Yes.
--I just called to ask on the way in is she over it. She's in the lying-in --I just called to ask on the way in is she over it. She's in the lying-in
hospital in Holles street. Dr Horne got her in. She's three days bad now. hospital in Holles street. Dr Horne got her in. She's three days bad now.
--O, Mr Bloom said. I'm sorry to hear that. --O, Mr Bloom said. I'm sorry to hear that.
--Yes, Mrs Breen said. And a houseful of kids at home. It's a very stiff --Yes, Mrs Breen said. And a houseful of kids at home. It's a very stiff
birth, the nurse told me. birth, the nurse told me.
---O, Mr Bloom said. ---O, Mr Bloom said.
His heavy pitying gaze absorbed her news. His tongue clacked in His heavy pitying gaze absorbed her news. His tongue clacked in
compassion. Dth! Dth! compassion. Dth! Dth!
--I'm sorry to hear that, he said. Poor thing! Three days! That's terrible --I'm sorry to hear that, he said. Poor thing! Three days! That's terrible
for her. for her.
Mrs Breen nodded. Mrs Breen nodded.
--She was taken bad on the Tuesday ... --She was taken bad on the Tuesday ...
those horsey women. Swagger around livery stables. Toss off a glass of those horsey women. Swagger around livery stables. Toss off a glass of
brandy neat while you'd say knife. That one at the Grosvenor this morning. brandy neat while you'd say knife. That one at the Grosvenor this morning.
Up with her on the car: wishswish. Stonewall or fivebarred gate Up with her on the car: wishswish. Stonewall or fivebarred gate
put her mount to it. Think that pugnosed driver did it out of spite. put her mount to it. Think that pugnosed driver did it out of spite.
Who is this she was like? O yes! Mrs Miriam Dandrade that sold me Who is this she was like? O yes! Mrs Miriam Dandrade that sold me
her old wraps and black underclothes in the Shelbourne hotel. her old wraps and black underclothes in the Shelbourne hotel.
Divorced Spanish American. Didn't take a feather out of her Divorced Spanish American. Didn't take a feather out of her
my handling them. As if I was her clotheshorse. Saw her in the my handling them. As if I was her clotheshorse. Saw her in the
viceregal party when Stubbs the park ranger got me in with Whelan of the viceregal party when Stubbs the park ranger got me in with Whelan of the
EXPRESS. Scavenging what the quality left. High tea. Mayonnaise I poured EXPRESS. Scavenging what the quality left. High tea. Mayonnaise I poured
on the plums thinking it was custard. Her ears ought to have tingled for a on the plums thinking it was custard. Her ears ought to have tingled for a
few weeks after. Want to be a bull for her. Born courtesan. No nursery few weeks after. Want to be a bull for her. Born courtesan. No nursery
work for her, thanks. work for her, thanks.
Poor Mrs Purefoy! Methodist husband. Method in his madness. Poor Mrs Purefoy! Methodist husband. Method in his madness.
Saffron bun and milk and soda lunch in the educational dairy. Y. M. C. A. Saffron bun and milk and soda lunch in the educational dairy. Y. M. C. A.
Eating with a stopwatch, thirtytwo chews to the minute. And still his Eating with a stopwatch, thirtytwo chews to the minute. And still his
muttonchop whiskers grew. Supposed to be well connected. Theodore's muttonchop whiskers grew. Supposed to be well connected. Theodore's
cousin in Dublin Castle. One tony relative in every family. Hardy annuals cousin in Dublin Castle. One tony relative in every family. Hardy annuals
he presents her with. Saw him out at the Three Jolly Topers marching along he presents her with. Saw him out at the Three Jolly Topers marching along
bareheaded and his eldest boy carrying one in a marketnet. The squallers. bareheaded and his eldest boy carrying one in a marketnet. The squallers.
Poor thing! Then having to give the breast year after year all hours of Poor thing! Then having to give the breast year after year all hours of
the night. Selfish those t.t's are. Dog in the manger. Only one lump of the night. Selfish those t.t's are. Dog in the manger. Only one lump of
sugar in my tea, if you please. sugar in my tea, if you please.
He stood at Fleet street crossing. Luncheon interval. A sixpenny at He stood at Fleet street crossing. Luncheon interval. A sixpenny at
Rowe's? Must look up that ad in the national library. An eightpenny in the Rowe's? Must look up that ad in the national library. An eightpenny in the
Burton. Better. On my way. Burton. Better. On my way.
He walked on past Bolton's Westmoreland house. Tea. Tea. Tea. I forgot He walked on past Bolton's Westmoreland house. Tea. Tea. Tea. I forgot
to tap Tom Kernan. to tap Tom Kernan.
Sss. Dth, dth, dth! Three days imagine groaning on a bed with a Sss. Dth, dth, dth! Three days imagine groaning on a bed with a
vinegared handkerchief round her forehead, her belly swollen out. Phew! vinegared handkerchief round her forehead, her belly swollen out. Phew!
Dreadful simply! Child's head too big: forceps. Doubled up inside her Dreadful simply! Child's head too big: forceps. Doubled up inside her
trying to butt its way out blindly, groping for the way out. Kill me that trying to butt its way out blindly, groping for the way out. Kill me that
would. Lucky Molly got over hers lightly. They ought to invent something would. Lucky Molly got over hers lightly. They ought to invent something
to stop that. Life with hard labour. Twilight sleep idea: queen Victoria to stop that. Life with hard labour. Twilight sleep idea: queen Victoria
was given that. Nine she had. A good layer. Old woman that lived in a shoe was given that. Nine she had. A good layer. Old woman that lived in a shoe
she had so many children. Suppose he was consumptive. Time someone thought she had so many children. Suppose he was consumptive. Time someone thought
about it instead of gassing about the what was it the pensive bosom of the about it instead of gassing about the what was it the pensive bosom of the
silver effulgence. Flapdoodle to feed fools on. They could easily have big silver effulgence. Flapdoodle to feed fools on. They could easily have big
establishments whole thing quite painless out of all the taxes give every establishments whole thing quite painless out of all the taxes give every
child born five quid at compound interest up to twentyone five per cent is child born five quid at compound interest up to twentyone five per cent is
a hundred shillings and five tiresome pounds multiply by twenty decimal a hundred shillings and five tiresome pounds multiply by twenty decimal
system encourage people to put by money save hundred and ten and a bit system encourage people to put by money save hundred and ten and a bit
twentyone years want to work it out on paper come to a tidy sum more than twentyone years want to work it out on paper come to a tidy sum more than
you think. you think.
Not stillborn of course. They are not even registered. Trouble for Not stillborn of course. They are not even registered. Trouble for
nothing. nothing.
Funny sight two of them together, their bellies out. Molly and Mrs Funny sight two of them together, their bellies out. Molly and Mrs
Moisel. Mothers' meeting. Phthisis retires for the time being, then Moisel. Mothers' meeting. Phthisis retires for the time being, then
returns. How flat they look all of a sudden after. Peaceful eyes. returns. How flat they look all of a sudden after. Peaceful eyes.
Weight off their mind. Old Mrs Thornton was a jolly old soul. All Weight off their mind. Old Mrs Thornton was a jolly old soul. All
my babies, she said. The spoon of pap in her mouth before she fed my babies, she said. The spoon of pap in her mouth before she fed
them. O, that's nyumnyum. Got her hand crushed by old Tom Wall's son. them. O, that's nyumnyum. Got her hand crushed by old Tom Wall's son.
His first bow to the public. Head like a prize pumpkin. Snuffy Dr Murren. His first bow to the public. Head like a prize pumpkin. Snuffy Dr Murren.
this hour. Feel as if I had been eaten and spewed. this hour. Feel as if I had been eaten and spewed.
Provost's house. The reverend Dr Salmon: tinned salmon. Well Provost's house. The reverend Dr Salmon: tinned salmon. Well
tinned in there. Like a mortuary chapel. Wouldn't live in it if they paid tinned in there. Like a mortuary chapel. Wouldn't live in it if they paid
me. Hope they have liver and bacon today. Nature abhors a vacuum. me. Hope they have liver and bacon today. Nature abhors a vacuum.
The sun freed itself slowly and lit glints of light among the silverware The sun freed itself slowly and lit glints of light among the silverware
opposite in Walter Sexton's window by which John Howard Parnell passed, opposite in Walter Sexton's window by which John Howard Parnell passed,
unseeing. unseeing.
There he is: the brother. Image of him. Haunting face. Now that's a There he is: the brother. Image of him. Haunting face. Now that's a
coincidence. Course hundreds of times you think of a person and don't coincidence. Course hundreds of times you think of a person and don't
meet him. Like a man walking in his sleep. No-one knows him. Must be a meet him. Like a man walking in his sleep. No-one knows him. Must be a
corporation meeting today. They say he never put on the city marshal's corporation meeting today. They say he never put on the city marshal's
uniform since he got the job. Charley Kavanagh used to come out on his uniform since he got the job. Charley Kavanagh used to come out on his
high horse, cocked hat, puffed, powdered and shaved. Look at the high horse, cocked hat, puffed, powdered and shaved. Look at the
woebegone walk of him. Eaten a bad egg. Poached eyes on ghost. I have a woebegone walk of him. Eaten a bad egg. Poached eyes on ghost. I have a
pain. Great man's brother: his brother's brother. He'd look nice on the pain. Great man's brother: his brother's brother. He'd look nice on the
city charger. Drop into the D.B.C. probably for his coffee, play chess city charger. Drop into the D.B.C. probably for his coffee, play chess
there. His brother used men as pawns. Let them all go to pot. Afraid to there. His brother used men as pawns. Let them all go to pot. Afraid to
pass a remark on him. Freeze them up with that eye of his. That's the pass a remark on him. Freeze them up with that eye of his. That's the
fascination: the name. All a bit touched. Mad Fanny and his other sister fascination: the name. All a bit touched. Mad Fanny and his other sister
Mrs Dickinson driving about with scarlet harness. Bolt upright lik Mrs Dickinson driving about with scarlet harness. Bolt upright lik
 surgeon M'Ardle. Still David Sheehy beat him for south Meath.  surgeon M'Ardle. Still David Sheehy beat him for south Meath.
Apply for the Chiltern Hundreds and retire into public life. The patriot's Apply for the Chiltern Hundreds and retire into public life. The patriot's
banquet. Eating orangepeels in the park. Simon Dedalus said when they put banquet. Eating orangepeels in the park. Simon Dedalus said when they put
him in parliament that Parnell would come back from the grave and lead him in parliament that Parnell would come back from the grave and lead
him out of the house of commons by the arm. him out of the house of commons by the arm.
--Of the twoheaded octopus, one of whose heads is the head upon which --Of the twoheaded octopus, one of whose heads is the head upon which
the ends of the world have forgotten to come while the other speaks with a the ends of the world have forgotten to come while the other speaks with a
Scotch accent. The tentacles ... Scotch accent. The tentacles ...
They passed from behind Mr Bloom along the curbstone. Beard and They passed from behind Mr Bloom along the curbstone. Beard and
bicycle. Young woman. bicycle. Young woman.
And there he is too. Now that's really a coincidence: second time. And there he is too. Now that's really a coincidence: second time.
Coming events cast their shadows before. With the approval of the eminent Coming events cast their shadows before. With the approval of the eminent
poet, Mr Geo. Russell. That might be Lizzie Twigg with him. A. E.: what poet, Mr Geo. Russell. That might be Lizzie Twigg with him. A. E.: what
does that mean? Initials perhaps. Albert Edward, Arthur Edmund, does that mean? Initials perhaps. Albert Edward, Arthur Edmund,
an one, the amiable Miss Callan, who is the lustre of her own sex and the an one, the amiable Miss Callan, who is the lustre of her own sex and the
astonishment of ours? And at an instant the most momentous that can astonishment of ours? And at an instant the most momentous that can
befall a puny child of clay? Perish the thought! I shudder to think of befall a puny child of clay? Perish the thought! I shudder to think of
the future of a race where the seeds of such malice have been sown and the future of a race where the seeds of such malice have been sown and
where no right reverence is rendered to mother and maid in house of where no right reverence is rendered to mother and maid in house of
Horne. Having delivered himself of this rebuke he saluted those present Horne. Having delivered himself of this rebuke he saluted those present
on the by and repaired to the door. A murmur of approval arose from all on the by and repaired to the door. A murmur of approval arose from all
and some were for ejecting the low soaker without more ado, a design and some were for ejecting the low soaker without more ado, a design
which would have been effected nor would he have received more than his which would have been effected nor would he have received more than his
bare deserts had he not abridged his transgression by affirming with a bare deserts had he not abridged his transgression by affirming with a
horrid imprecation (for he swore a round hand) that he was as good a son horrid imprecation (for he swore a round hand) that he was as good a son
of the true fold as ever drew breath. Stap my vitals, said he, them was of the true fold as ever drew breath. Stap my vitals, said he, them was
always the sentiments of honest Frank Costello which I was bred up most always the sentiments of honest Frank Costello which I was bred up most
particular to honour thy father and thy mother that had the best hand to particular to honour thy father and thy mother that had the best hand to
a rolypoly or a hasty pudding as you ever see what I always looks back on a rolypoly or a hasty pudding as you ever see what I always looks back on
with a loving heart. with a loving heart.
To revert to Mr Bloom who, after his first entry, had been conscious of To revert to Mr Bloom who, after his first entry, had been conscious of
some impudent mocks which he however had borne with as being the fruits some impudent mocks which he however had borne with as being the fruits
of that age upon which it is commonly charged that it knows not pity. The of that age upon which it is commonly charged that it knows not pity. The
young sparks, it is true, were as full of extravagancies as overgrown young sparks, it is true, were as full of extravagancies as overgrown
children: the words of their tumultuary discussions were difficultly children: the words of their tumultuary discussions were difficultly
understood and not often nice: their testiness and outrageous MOTS were understood and not often nice: their testiness and outrageous MOTS were
such that his intellects resiled from: nor were they scrupulously such that his intellects resiled from: nor were they scrupulously
sensible of the proprieties though their fund of strong animal spirits sensible of the proprieties though their fund of strong animal spirits
spoke in their behalf. But the word of Mr Costello was an unwelcome spoke in their behalf. But the word of Mr Costello was an unwelcome
language for him for he nauseated the wretch that seemed to him a language for him for he nauseated the wretch that seemed to him a
cropeared creature of a misshapen gibbosity, born out of wedlock and cropeared creature of a misshapen gibbosity, born out of wedlock and
thrust like a crookback toothed and feet first into the world, which the thrust like a crookback toothed and feet first into the world, which the
dint of the surgeon's pliers in his skull lent indeed a colour to, so as dint of the surgeon's pliers in his skull lent indeed a colour to, so as
to put him in thought of that missing link of creation's chain to put him in thought of that missing link of creation's chain
desiderated by the late ingenious Mr Darwin. It was now for more than the desiderated by the late ingenious Mr Darwin. It was now for more than the
middle span of our allotted years that he had passed through the thousand middle span of our allotted years that he had passed through the thousand
vicissitudes of existence and, being of a wary ascendancy and self a man vicissitudes of existence and, being of a wary ascendancy and self a man
of rare forecast, he had enjoined his heart to repress all motions of a of rare forecast, he had enjoined his heart to repress all motions of a
rising choler and, by intercepting them with the readiest precaution, rising choler and, by intercepting them with the readiest precaution,
foster within his breast that plenitude of sufferance which base minds foster within his breast that plenitude of sufferance which base minds
jeer at, rash judgers scorn and all find tolerable and but tolerable. To jeer at, rash judgers scorn and all find tolerable and but tolerable. To
those who create themselves wits at the cost of feminine delicacy (a those who create themselves wits at the cost of feminine delicacy (a
habit of mind which he never did hold with) to them he would concede habit of mind which he never did hold with) to them he would concede
neither to bear the name nor to herit the tradition of a proper breeding: neither to bear the name nor to herit the tradition of a proper breeding:
while for such that, having lost all forbearance, can lose no more, there while for such that, having lost all forbearance, can lose no more, there
remained the sharp antidote of experience to cause their insolency to remained the sharp antidote of experience to cause their insolency to
beat a precipitate and inglorious retreat. Not but what he could feel beat a precipitate and inglorious retreat. Not but what he could feel
with mettlesome youth which, caring nought for the mows of dotards or the with mettlesome youth which, caring nought for the mows of dotards or the
gruntlings of the severe, is ever (as the chaste fancy of the Holy Writer gruntlings of the severe, is ever (as the chaste fancy of the Holy Writer
expresses it) for eating of the tree forbid it yet not so far forth as to expresses it) for eating of the tree forbid it yet not so far forth as to
pretermit humanity upon any condition soever towards a gentlewoman when pretermit humanity upon any condition soever towards a gentlewoman when
she was about her lawful occasions. To conclude, while from the sister's she was about her lawful occasions. To conclude, while from the sister's
words he had reckoned upon a speedy delivery he was, however, it must be words he had reckoned upon a speedy delivery he was, however, it must be
owned, not a little alleviated by the intelligence that the issue so owned, not a little alleviated by the intelligence that the issue so
auspicated after an ordeal of such duress now testified once more to the auspicated after an ordeal of such duress now testified once more to the
mercy as well as to the bounty of the Supreme Being. mercy as well as to the bounty of the Supreme Being.
Accordingly he broke his mind to his neighbour, saying that, to express Accordingly he broke his mind to his neighbour, saying that, to express
his notion of the thing, his opinion (who ought not perchance to express his notion of the thing, his opinion (who ought not perchance to express
one) was that one must have a cold constitution and a frigid genius not one) was that one must have a cold constitution and a frigid genius not
to be rejoiced by this freshest news of the fruition of her confinement to be rejoiced by this freshest news of the fruition of her confinement
since she had been in such pain through no fault of hers. The dressy since she had been in such pain through no fault of hers. The dressy
young blade said it was her husband's that put her in that expectation or young blade said it was her husband's that put her in that expectation or
at least it ought to be unless she were another Ephesian matron. I must at least it ought to be unless she were another Ephesian matron. I must
acquaint you, said Mr Crotthers, clapping on the table so as to evoke a acquaint you, said Mr Crotthers, clapping on the table so as to evoke a
resonant comment of emphasis, old Glory Allelujurum was round again resonant comment of emphasis, old Glory Allelujurum was round again
today, an elderly man with dundrearies, preferring through his nose a today, an elderly man with dundrearies, preferring through his nose a
request to have word of Wilhelmina, my life, as he calls her. I bade him request to have word of Wilhelmina, my life, as he calls her. I bade him
hold himself in readiness for that the event would burst anon. 'Slife, hold himself in readiness for that the event would burst anon. 'Slife,
I'll be round with you. I cannot but extol the virile potency of the old I'll be round with you. I cannot but extol the virile potency of the old
bucko that could still knock another child out of her. All fell to bucko that could still knock another child out of her. All fell to
praising of it, each after his own fashion, though the same young blade praising of it, each after his own fashion, though the same young blade
held with his former view that another than her conjugial had been the held with his former view that another than her conjugial had been the
man in the gap, a clerk in orders, a linkboy (virtuous) or an itinerant man in the gap, a clerk in orders, a linkboy (virtuous) or an itinerant
vendor of articles needed in every household. Singular, communed the vendor of articles needed in every household. Singular, communed the
guest with himself, the wonderfully unequal faculty of metempsychosis guest with himself, the wonderfully unequal faculty of metempsychosis
possessed by them, that the puerperal dormitory and the dissecting possessed by them, that the puerperal dormitory and the dissecting
theatre should be the seminaries of such frivolity, that the mere theatre should be the seminaries of such frivolity, that the mere
acquisition of academic titles should suffice to transform in a pinch of acquisition of academic titles should suffice to transform in a pinch of
time these votaries of levity into exemplary practitioners of an art time these votaries of levity into exemplary practitioners of an art
which most men anywise eminent have esteemed the noblest. But, he further which most men anywise eminent have esteemed the noblest. But, he further
added, it is mayhap to relieve the pentup feelings that in common oppress added, it is mayhap to relieve the pentup feelings that in common oppress
them for I have more than once observed that birds of a feather laugh them for I have more than once observed that birds of a feather laugh
together. together.
But with what fitness, let it be asked of the noble lord, his patron, has But with what fitness, let it be asked of the noble lord, his patron, has
this alien, whom the concession of a gracious prince has admitted to this alien, whom the concession of a gracious prince has admitted to
civic rights, constituted himself the lord paramount of our internal civic rights, constituted himself the lord paramount of our internal
polity? Where is now that gratitude which loyalty should have counselled? polity? Where is now that gratitude which loyalty should have counselled?
During the recent war whenever the enemy had a temporary advantage with During the recent war whenever the enemy had a temporary advantage with
his granados did this traitor to his kind not seize that moment to his granados did this traitor to his kind not seize that moment to
discharge his piece against the empire of which he is a tenant at will discharge his piece against the empire of which he is a tenant at will
while he trembled for the security of his four per cents? Has he while he trembled for the security of his four per cents? Has he
forgotten this as he forgets all benefits received? Or is it that from forgotten this as he forgets all benefits received? Or is it that from
being a deluder of others he has become at last his own dupe as he is, if being a deluder of others he has become at last his own dupe as he is, if
report belie him not, his own and his only enjoyer? Far be it from report belie him not, his own and his only enjoyer? Far be it from
candour to violate the bedchamber of a respectable lady, the daughter of candour to violate the bedchamber of a respectable lady, the daughter of
a gallant major, or to cast the most distant reflections upon her virtue a gallant major, or to cast the most distant reflections upon her virtue
but if he challenges attention there (as it was indeed highly his but if he challenges attention there (as it was indeed highly his
interest not to have done) then be it so. Unhappy woman, she has been too interest not to have done) then be it so. Unhappy woman, she has been too
long and too persistently denied her legitimate prerogative to listen to long and too persistently denied her legitimate prerogative to listen to
his objurgations with any other feeling than the derision of the his objurgations with any other feeling than the derision of the
desperate. He says this, a censor of morals, a very pelican in his piety, desperate. He says this, a censor of morals, a very pelican in his piety,
who did not scruple, oblivious of the ties of nature, to attempt illicit who did not scruple, oblivious of the ties of nature, to attempt illicit
intercourse with a female domestic drawn from the lowest strata of intercourse with a female domestic drawn from the lowest strata of
society! Nay, had the hussy's scouringbrush not been her tutelary angel, society! Nay, had the hussy's scouringbrush not been her tutelary angel,
it had gone with her as hard as with Hagar, the Egyptian! In the question it had gone with her as hard as with Hagar, the Egyptian! In the question
of the grazing lands his peevish asperity is notorious and in Mr Cuffe's of the grazing lands his peevish asperity is notorious and in Mr Cuffe's
hearing brought upon him from an indignant rancher a scathing retort hearing brought upon him from an indignant rancher a scathing retort
couched in terms as straightforward as they were bucolic. It ill becomes couched in terms as straightforward as they were bucolic. It ill becomes
him to preach that gospel. Has he not nearer home a seedfield that lies him to preach that gospel. Has he not nearer home a seedfield that lies
fallow for the want of the ploughshare? A habit reprehensible at puberty fallow for the want of the ploughshare? A habit reprehensible at puberty
is second nature and an opprobrium in middle life. If he must dispense is second nature and an opprobrium in middle life. If he must dispense
his balm of Gilead in nostrums and apothegms of dubious taste to restore his balm of Gilead in nostrums and apothegms of dubious taste to restore
to health a generation of unfledged profligates let his practice consist to health a generation of unfledged profligates let his practice consist
better with the doctrines that now engross him. His marital breast is the better with the doctrines that now engross him. His marital breast is the
repository of secrets which decorum is reluctant to adduce. The lewd repository of secrets which decorum is reluctant to adduce. The lewd
suggestions of some faded beauty may console him for a consort neglected suggestions of some faded beauty may console him for a consort neglected
and debauched but this new exponent of morals and healer of ills is at and debauched but this new exponent of morals and healer of ills is at
his best an exotic tree which, when rooted in its native orient, throve his best an exotic tree which, when rooted in its native orient, throve
and flourished and was abundant in balm but, transplanted to a clime more and flourished and was abundant in balm but, transplanted to a clime more
temperate, its roots have lost their quondam vigour while the stuff that temperate, its roots have lost their quondam vigour while the stuff that
comes away from it is stagnant, acid and inoperative. comes away from it is stagnant, acid and inoperative.
The news was imparted with a circumspection recalling the ceremonial The news was imparted with a circumspection recalling the ceremonial
usage of the Sublime Porte by the second female infirmarian to the junior usage of the Sublime Porte by the second female infirmarian to the junior
medical officer in residence, who in his turn announced to the delegation medical officer in residence, who in his turn announced to the delegation
that an heir had been born, When he had betaken himself to the women's that an heir had been born, When he had betaken himself to the women's
apartment to assist at the prescribed ceremony of the afterbirth in the apartment to assist at the prescribed ceremony of the afterbirth in the
presence of the secretary of state for domestic affairs and the members presence of the secretary of state for domestic affairs and the members
of the privy council, silent in unanimous exhaustion and approbation the of the privy council, silent in unanimous exhaustion and approbation the
delegates, chafing under the length and solemnity of their vigil and delegates, chafing under the length and solemnity of their vigil and
hoping that the joyful occurrence would palliate a licence which the hoping that the joyful occurrence would palliate a licence which the
simultaneous absence of abigail and obstetrician rendered the easier, simultaneous absence of abigail and obstetrician rendered the easier,
broke out at once into a strife of tongues. In vain the voice of Mr broke out at once into a strife of tongues. In vain the voice of Mr
Canvasser Bloom was heard endeavouring to urge, to mollify, to refrain. Canvasser Bloom was heard endeavouring to urge, to mollify, to refrain.
The moment was too propitious for the display of that discursiveness The moment was too propitious for the display of that discursiveness
which seemed the only bond of union among tempers so divergent. Every which seemed the only bond of union among tempers so divergent. Every
phase of the situation was successively eviscerated: the prenatal phase of the situation was successively eviscerated: the prenatal
repugnance of uterine brothers, the Caesarean section, posthumity with repugnance of uterine brothers, the Caesarean section, posthumity with
respect to the father and, that rarer form, with respect to the mother, respect to the father and, that rarer form, with respect to the mother,
the fratricidal case known as the Childs Murder and rendered memorable by the fratricidal case known as the Childs Murder and rendered memorable by
the impassioned plea of Mr Advocate Bushe which secured the acquittal of the impassioned plea of Mr Advocate Bushe which secured the acquittal of
the wrongfully accused, the rights of primogeniture and king's bounty the wrongfully accused, the rights of primogeniture and king's bounty
touching twins and triplets, miscarriages and infanticides, simulated or touching twins and triplets, miscarriages and infanticides, simulated or
dissimulated, the acardiac FOETUS IN FOETU and aprosopia due to a dissimulated, the acardiac FOETUS IN FOETU and aprosopia due to a
congestion, the agnathia of certain chinless Chinamen (cited by Mr congestion, the agnathia of certain chinless Chinamen (cited by Mr
Candidate Mulligan) in consequence of defective reunion of the maxillary Candidate Mulligan) in consequence of defective reunion of the maxillary
knobs along the medial line so that (as he said) one ear could hear what knobs along the medial line so that (as he said) one ear could hear what
the other spoke, the benefits of anesthesia or twilight sleep, the the other spoke, the benefits of anesthesia or twilight sleep, the
prolongation of labour pains in advanced gravidancy by reason of pressure prolongation of labour pains in advanced gravidancy by reason of pressure
on the vein, the premature relentment of the amniotic fluid (as on the vein, the premature relentment of the amniotic fluid (as
exemplified in the actual case) with consequent peril of sepsis to the exemplified in the actual case) with consequent peril of sepsis to the
matrix, artificial insemination by means of syringes, involution of the matrix, artificial insemination by means of syringes, involution of the
womb consequent upon the menopause, the problem of the perpetration of womb consequent upon the menopause, the problem of the perpetration of
the species in the case of females impregnated by delinquent rape, that the species in the case of females impregnated by delinquent rape, that
distressing manner of delivery called by the Brandenburghers STURZGEBURT, distressing manner of delivery called by the Brandenburghers STURZGEBURT,
the recorded instances of multiseminal, twikindled and monstrous births the recorded instances of multiseminal, twikindled and monstrous births
conceived during the catamenic period or of consanguineous parents--in a conceived during the catamenic period or of consanguineous parents--in a
word all the cases of human nativity which Aristotle has classified in word all the cases of human nativity which Aristotle has classified in
his masterpiece with chromolithographic illustrations. The gravest his masterpiece with chromolithographic illustrations. The gravest
problems of obstetrics and forensic medicine were examined with as much problems of obstetrics and forensic medicine were examined with as much
animation as the most popular beliefs on the state of pregnancy such as animation as the most popular beliefs on the state of pregnancy such as
the forbidding to a gravid woman to step over a countrystile lest, by her the forbidding to a gravid woman to step over a countrystile lest, by her
movement, the navelcord should strangle her creature and the injunction movement, the navelcord should strangle her creature and the injunction
upon her in the event of a yearning, ardently and ineffectually upon her in the event of a yearning, ardently and ineffectually
entertained, to place her hand against that part of her person which long entertained, to place her hand against that part of her person which long
usage has consecrated as the seat of castigation. The abnormalities of usage has consecrated as the seat of castigation. The abnormalities of
harelip, breastmole, supernumerary digits, negro's inkle, strawberry mark harelip, breastmole, supernumerary digits, negro's inkle, strawberry mark
and portwine stain were alleged by one as a PRIMA FACIE and natural and portwine stain were alleged by one as a PRIMA FACIE and natural
hypothetical explanation of those swineheaded (the case of Madame Grissel hypothetical explanation of those swineheaded (the case of Madame Grissel
Steevens was not forgotten) or doghaired infants occasionally born. The Steevens was not forgotten) or doghaired infants occasionally born. The
hypothesis of a plasmic memory, advanced by the Caledonian envoy and hypothesis of a plasmic memory, advanced by the Caledonian envoy and
worthy of the metaphysical traditions of the land he stood for, envisaged worthy of the metaphysical traditions of the land he stood for, envisaged
in such cases an arrest of embryonic development at some stage antecedent in such cases an arrest of embryonic development at some stage antecedent
to the human. An outlandish delegate sustained against both these views, to the human. An outlandish delegate sustained against both these views,
with such heat as almost carried conviction, the theory of copulation with such heat as almost carried conviction, the theory of copulation
between women and the males of brutes, his authority being his own between women and the males of brutes, his authority being his own
avouchment in support of fables such as that of the Minotaur which the avouchment in support of fables such as that of the Minotaur which the
genius of the elegant Latin poet has handed down to us in the pages of genius of the elegant Latin poet has handed down to us in the pages of
his Metamorphoses. The impression made by his words was immediate but his Metamorphoses. The impression made by his words was immediate but
shortlived. It was effaced as easily as it had been evoked by an shortlived. It was effaced as easily as it had been evoked by an
allocution from Mr Candidate Mulligan in that vein of pleasantry which allocution from Mr Candidate Mulligan in that vein of pleasantry which
none better than he knew how to affect, postulating as the supremest none better than he knew how to affect, postulating as the supremest
object of desire a nice clean old man. Contemporaneously, a heated object of desire a nice clean old man. Contemporaneously, a heated
argument having arisen between Mr Delegate Madden and Mr Candidate Lynch argument having arisen between Mr Delegate Madden and Mr Candidate Lynch
regarding the juridical and theological dilemma created in the event of regarding the juridical and theological dilemma created in the event of
one Siamese twin predeceasing the other, the difficulty by mutual consent one Siamese twin predeceasing the other, the difficulty by mutual consent
was referred to Mr Canvasser Bloom for instant submittal to Mr Coadjutor was referred to Mr Canvasser Bloom for instant submittal to Mr Coadjutor
Deacon Dedalus. Hitherto silent, whether the better to show by Deacon Dedalus. Hitherto silent, whether the better to show by
preternatural gravity that curious dignity of the garb with which he was preternatural gravity that curious dignity of the garb with which he was
invested or in obedience to an inward voice, he delivered briefly and, as invested or in obedience to an inward voice, he delivered briefly and, as
some thought, perfunctorily the ecclesiastical ordinance forbidding man some thought, perfunctorily the ecclesiastical ordinance forbidding man
to put asunder what God has joined. to put asunder what God has joined.
But Malachias' tale began to freeze them with horror. He conjured up the But Malachias' tale began to freeze them with horror. He conjured up the
scene before them. The secret panel beside the chimney slid back and in scene before them. The secret panel beside the chimney slid back and in
the recess appeared ... Haines! Which of us did not feel his flesh creep! the recess appeared ... Haines! Which of us did not feel his flesh creep!
He had a portfolio full of Celtic literature in one hand, in the other a He had a portfolio full of Celtic literature in one hand, in the other a
phial marked POISON. Surprise, horror, loathing were depicted on all phial marked POISON. Surprise, horror, loathing were depicted on all
faces while he eyed them with a ghostly grin. I anticipated some such faces while he eyed them with a ghostly grin. I anticipated some such
reception, he began with an eldritch laugh, for which, it seems, history reception, he began with an eldritch laugh, for which, it seems, history
is to blame. Yes, it is true. I am the murderer of Samuel Childs. And how is to blame. Yes, it is true. I am the murderer of Samuel Childs. And how
I am punished! The inferno has no terrors for me. This is the appearance I am punished! The inferno has no terrors for me. This is the appearance
is on me. Tare and ages, what way would I be resting at all, he muttered is on me. Tare and ages, what way would I be resting at all, he muttered
thickly, and I tramping Dublin this while back with my share of songs and thickly, and I tramping Dublin this while back with my share of songs and
himself after me the like of a soulth or a bullawurrus? My hell, and himself after me the like of a soulth or a bullawurrus? My hell, and
Ireland's, is in this life. It is what I tried to obliterate my crime. Ireland's, is in this life. It is what I tried to obliterate my crime.
Distractions, rookshooting, the Erse language (he recited some), laudanum Distractions, rookshooting, the Erse language (he recited some), laudanum
(he raised the phial to his lips), camping out. In vain! His spectre (he raised the phial to his lips), camping out. In vain! His spectre
stalks me. Dope is my only hope ... Ah! Destruction! The black panther! stalks me. Dope is my only hope ... Ah! Destruction! The black panther!
With a cry he suddenly vanished and the panel slid back. An instant later With a cry he suddenly vanished and the panel slid back. An instant later
his head appeared in the door opposite and said: Meet me at Westland Row his head appeared in the door opposite and said: Meet me at Westland Row
station at ten past eleven. He was gone. Tears gushed from the eyes of station at ten past eleven. He was gone. Tears gushed from the eyes of
the dissipated host. The seer raised his hand to heaven, murmuring: The the dissipated host. The seer raised his hand to heaven, murmuring: The
vendetta of Mananaun! The sage repeated: LEX TALIONIS. The sentimentalist vendetta of Mananaun! The sage repeated: LEX TALIONIS. The sentimentalist
is he who would enjoy without incurring the immense debtorship for a is he who would enjoy without incurring the immense debtorship for a
thing done. Malachias, overcome by emotion, ceased. The mystery was thing done. Malachias, overcome by emotion, ceased. The mystery was
unveiled. Haines was the third brother. His real name was Childs. The unveiled. Haines was the third brother. His real name was Childs. The
black panther was himself the ghost of his own father. He drank drugs to black panther was himself the ghost of his own father. He drank drugs to
obliterate. For this relief much thanks. The lonely house by the obliterate. For this relief much thanks. The lonely house by the
graveyard is uninhabited. No soul will live there. The spider pitches her graveyard is uninhabited. No soul will live there. The spider pitches her
web in the solitude. The nocturnal rat peers from his hole. A curse is on web in the solitude. The nocturnal rat peers from his hole. A curse is on
it. It is haunted. Murderer's ground. it. It is haunted. Murderer's ground.
What is the age of the soul of man? As she hath the virtue of the What is the age of the soul of man? As she hath the virtue of the
chameleon to change her hue at every new approach, to be gay with the chameleon to change her hue at every new approach, to be gay with the
merry and mournful with the downcast, so too is her age changeable as her merry and mournful with the downcast, so too is her age changeable as her
mood. No longer is Leopold, as he sits there, ruminating, chewing the cud mood. No longer is Leopold, as he sits there, ruminating, chewing the cud
of reminiscence, that staid agent of publicity and holder of a modest of reminiscence, that staid agent of publicity and holder of a modest
substance in the funds. A score of years are blown away. He is young substance in the funds. A score of years are blown away. He is young
Leopold. There, as in a retrospective arrangement, a mirror within a Leopold. There, as in a retrospective arrangement, a mirror within a
mirror (hey, presto!), he beholdeth himself. That young figure of then is mirror (hey, presto!), he beholdeth himself. That young figure of then is
seen, precociously manly, walking on a nipping morning from the old house seen, precociously manly, walking on a nipping morning from the old house
in Clanbrassil street to the high school, his booksatchel on him in Clanbrassil street to the high school, his booksatchel on him
bandolierwise, and in it a goodly hunk of wheaten loaf, a mother's bandolierwise, and in it a goodly hunk of wheaten loaf, a mother's
thought. Or it is the same figure, a year or so gone over, in his first thought. Or it is the same figure, a year or so gone over, in his first
hard hat (ah, that was a day!), already on the road, a fullfledged hard hat (ah, that was a day!), already on the road, a fullfledged
traveller for the family firm, equipped with an orderbook, a scented traveller for the family firm, equipped with an orderbook, a scented
handkerchief (not for show only), his case of bright trinketware (alas! a handkerchief (not for show only), his case of bright trinketware (alas! a
thing now of the past!) and a quiverful of compliant smiles for this or thing now of the past!) and a quiverful of compliant smiles for this or
that halfwon housewife reckoning it out upon her fingertips or for a that halfwon housewife reckoning it out upon her fingertips or for a
budding virgin, shyly acknowledging (but the heart? tell me!) his studied budding virgin, shyly acknowledging (but the heart? tell me!) his studied
baisemoins. The scent, the smile, but, more than these, the dark eyes and baisemoins. The scent, the smile, but, more than these, the dark eyes and
oleaginous address, brought home at duskfall many a commission to the oleaginous address, brought home at duskfall many a commission to the
head of the firm, seated with Jacob's pipe after like labours in the head of the firm, seated with Jacob's pipe after like labours in the
paternal ingle (a meal of noodles, you may be sure, is aheating), reading paternal ingle (a meal of noodles, you may be sure, is aheating), reading
through round horned spectacles some paper from the Europe of a month through round horned spectacles some paper from the Europe of a month
before. But hey, presto, the mirror is breathed on and the young before. But hey, presto, the mirror is breathed on and the young
knighterrant recedes, shrivels, dwindles to a tiny speck within the mist. knighterrant recedes, shrivels, dwindles to a tiny speck within the mist.
Now he is himself paternal and these about him might be his sons. Who can Now he is himself paternal and these about him might be his sons. Who can
say? The wise father knows his own child. He thinks of a drizzling night say? The wise father knows his own child. He thinks of a drizzling night
in Hatch street, hard by the bonded stores there, the first. Together in Hatch street, hard by the bonded stores there, the first. Together
(she is a poor waif, a child of shame, yours and mine and of all for a (she is a poor waif, a child of shame, yours and mine and of all for a
bare shilling and her luckpenny), together they hear the heavy tread of bare shilling and her luckpenny), together they hear the heavy tread of
the watch as two raincaped shadows pass the new royal university. Bridie! the watch as two raincaped shadows pass the new royal university. Bridie!
Bridie Kelly! He will never forget the name, ever remember the night: Bridie Kelly! He will never forget the name, ever remember the night:
first night, the bridenight. They are entwined in nethermost darkness, first night, the bridenight. They are entwined in nethermost darkness,
the willer with the willed, and in an instant (FIAT!) light shall flood the willer with the willed, and in an instant (FIAT!) light shall flood
the world. Did heart leap to heart? Nay, fair reader. In a breath 'twas the world. Did heart leap to heart? Nay, fair reader. In a breath 'twas
done but--hold! Back! It must not be! In terror the poor girl flees away done but--hold! Back! It must not be! In terror the poor girl flees away
through the murk. She is the bride of darkness, a daughter of night. She through the murk. She is the bride of darkness, a daughter of night. She
dare not bear the sunnygolden babe of day. No, Leopold. Name and memory dare not bear the sunnygolden babe of day. No, Leopold. Name and memory
solace thee not. That youthful illusion of thy strength was taken from solace thee not. That youthful illusion of thy strength was taken from
thee--and in vain. No son of thy loins is by thee. There is none now to thee--and in vain. No son of thy loins is by thee. There is none now to
be for Leopold, what Leopold was for Rudolph. be for Leopold, what Leopold was for Rudolph.
The voices blend and fuse in clouded silence: silence that is the The voices blend and fuse in clouded silence: silence that is the
infinite of space: and swiftly, silently the soul is wafted over regions infinite of space: and swiftly, silently the soul is wafted over regions
of cycles of generations that have lived. A region where grey twilight of cycles of generations that have lived. A region where grey twilight
ever descends, never falls on wide sagegreen pasturefields, shedding her ever descends, never falls on wide sagegreen pasturefields, shedding her
dusk, scattering a perennial dew of stars. She follows her mother with dusk, scattering a perennial dew of stars. She follows her mother with
ungainly steps, a mare leading her fillyfoal. Twilight phantoms are they, ungainly steps, a mare leading her fillyfoal. Twilight phantoms are they,
yet moulded in prophetic grace of structure, slim shapely haunches, a yet moulded in prophetic grace of structure, slim shapely haunches, a
supple tendonous neck, the meek apprehensive skull. They fade, sad supple tendonous neck, the meek apprehensive skull. They fade, sad
phantoms: all is gone. Agendath is a waste land, a home of screechowls phantoms: all is gone. Agendath is a waste land, a home of screechowls
and the sandblind upupa. Netaim, the golden, is no more. And on the and the sandblind upupa. Netaim, the golden, is no more. And on the
highway of the clouds they come, muttering thunder of rebellion, the highway of the clouds they come, muttering thunder of rebellion, the
ghosts of beasts. Huuh! Hark! Huuh! Parallax stalks behind and goads ghosts of beasts. Huuh! Hark! Huuh! Parallax stalks behind and goads
them, the lancinating lightnings of whose brow are scorpions. Elk and them, the lancinating lightnings of whose brow are scorpions. Elk and
yak, the bulls of Bashan and of Babylon, mammoth and mastodon, they come yak, the bulls of Bashan and of Babylon, mammoth and mastodon, they come
trooping to the sunken sea, LACUS MORTIS. Ominous revengeful zodiacal trooping to the sunken sea, LACUS MORTIS. Ominous revengeful zodiacal
host! They moan, passing upon the clouds, horned and capricorned, the host! They moan, passing upon the clouds, horned and capricorned, the
trumpeted with the tusked, the lionmaned, the giantantlered, snouter and trumpeted with the tusked, the lionmaned, the giantantlered, snouter and
crawler, rodent, ruminant and pachyderm, all their moving moaning crawler, rodent, ruminant and pachyderm, all their moving moaning
multitude, murderers of the sun. multitude, murderers of the sun.
Onward to the dead sea they tramp to drink, unslaked and with horrible Onward to the dead sea they tramp to drink, unslaked and with horrible
gulpings, the salt somnolent inexhaustible flood. And the equine portent gulpings, the salt somnolent inexhaustible flood. And the equine portent
grows again, magnified in the deserted heavens, nay to heaven's own grows again, magnified in the deserted heavens, nay to heaven's own
magnitude, till it looms, vast, over the house of Virgo. And lo, wonder magnitude, till it looms, vast, over the house of Virgo. And lo, wonder
of metempsychosis, it is she, the everlasting bride, harbinger of the of metempsychosis, it is she, the everlasting bride, harbinger of the
daystar, the bride, ever virgin. It is she, Martha, thou lost one, daystar, the bride, ever virgin. It is she, Martha, thou lost one,
Millicent, the young, the dear, the radiant. How serene does she now Millicent, the young, the dear, the radiant. How serene does she now
arise, a queen among the Pleiades, in the penultimate antelucan hour, arise, a queen among the Pleiades, in the penultimate antelucan hour,
shod in sandals of bright gold, coifed with a veil of what do you call it shod in sandals of bright gold, coifed with a veil of what do you call it
gossamer. It floats, it flows about her starborn flesh and loose it gossamer. It floats, it flows about her starborn flesh and loose it
streams, emerald, sapphire, mauve and heliotrope, sustained on currents streams, emerald, sapphire, mauve and heliotrope, sustained on currents
of the cold interstellar wind, winding, coiling, simply swirling, of the cold interstellar wind, winding, coiling, simply swirling,
writhing in the skies a mysterious writing till, after a myriad writhing in the skies a mysterious writing till, after a myriad
metamorphoses of symbol, it blazes, Alpha, a ruby and triangled sign upon metamorphoses of symbol, it blazes, Alpha, a ruby and triangled sign upon
the forehead of Taurus. the forehead of Taurus.
Francis was reminding Stephen of years before when they had been at Francis was reminding Stephen of years before when they had been at
school together in Conmee's time. He asked about Glaucon, Alcibiades, school together in Conmee's time. He asked about Glaucon, Alcibiades,
Pisistratus. Where were they now? Neither knew. You have spoken of the Pisistratus. Where were they now? Neither knew. You have spoken of the
past and its phantoms, Stephen said. Why think of them? If I call them past and its phantoms, Stephen said. Why think of them? If I call them
into life across the waters of Lethe will not the poor ghosts troop to my into life across the waters of Lethe will not the poor ghosts troop to my
call? Who supposes it? I, Bous Stephanoumenos, bullockbefriending bard, call? Who supposes it? I, Bous Stephanoumenos, bullockbefriending bard,
am lord and giver of their life. He encircled his gadding hair with a am lord and giver of their life. He encircled his gadding hair with a
coronal of vineleaves, smiling at Vincent. That answer and those leaves, coronal of vineleaves, smiling at Vincent. That answer and those leaves,
Vincent said to him, will adorn you more fitly when something more, and Vincent said to him, will adorn you more fitly when something more, and
greatly more, than a capful of light odes can call your genius father. greatly more, than a capful of light odes can call your genius father.
All who wish you well hope this for you. All desire to see you bring All who wish you well hope this for you. All desire to see you bring
forth the work you meditate, to acclaim you Stephaneforos. I heartily forth the work you meditate, to acclaim you Stephaneforos. I heartily
wish you may not fail them. O no, Vincent Lenehan said, laying a hand on wish you may not fail them. O no, Vincent Lenehan said, laying a hand on
the shoulder near him. Have no fear. He could not leave his mother an the shoulder near him. Have no fear. He could not leave his mother an
orphan. The young man's face grew dark. All could see how hard it was for orphan. The young man's face grew dark. All could see how hard it was for
him to be reminded of his promise and of his recent loss. He would have him to be reminded of his promise and of his recent loss. He would have
withdrawn from the feast had not the noise of voices allayed the smart. withdrawn from the feast had not the noise of voices allayed the smart.
Madden had lost five drachmas on Sceptre for a whim of the rider's name: Madden had lost five drachmas on Sceptre for a whim of the rider's name:
Lenehan as much more. He told them of the race. The flag fell and, huuh! Lenehan as much more. He told them of the race. The flag fell and, huuh!
off, scamper, the mare ran out freshly with O. Madden up. She was leading off, scamper, the mare ran out freshly with O. Madden up. She was leading
the field. All hearts were beating. Even Phyllis could not contain the field. All hearts were beating. Even Phyllis could not contain
herself. She waved her scarf and cried: Huzzah! Sceptre wins! But in the herself. She waved her scarf and cried: Huzzah! Sceptre wins! But in the
straight on the run home when all were in close order the dark horse straight on the run home when all were in close order the dark horse
Throwaway drew level, reached, outstripped her. All was lost now. Phyllis Throwaway drew level, reached, outstripped her. All was lost now. Phyllis
was silent: her eyes were sad anemones. Juno, she cried, I am undone. But was silent: her eyes were sad anemones. Juno, she cried, I am undone. But
her lover consoled her and brought her a bright casket of gold in which her lover consoled her and brought her a bright casket of gold in which
lay some oval sugarplums which she partook. A tear fell: one only. A lay some oval sugarplums which she partook. A tear fell: one only. A
whacking fine whip, said Lenehan, is W. Lane. Four winners yesterday and whacking fine whip, said Lenehan, is W. Lane. Four winners yesterday and
three today. What rider is like him? Mount him on the camel or the three today. What rider is like him? Mount him on the camel or the
boisterous buffalo the victory in a hack canter is still his. But let us boisterous buffalo the victory in a hack canter is still his. But let us
bear it as was the ancient wont. Mercy on the luckless! Poor Sceptre! he bear it as was the ancient wont. Mercy on the luckless! Poor Sceptre! he
said with a light sigh. She is not the filly that she was. Never, by this said with a light sigh. She is not the filly that she was. Never, by this
hand, shall we behold such another. By gad, sir, a queen of them. Do you hand, shall we behold such another. By gad, sir, a queen of them. Do you
remember her, Vincent? I wish you could have seen my queen today, Vincent remember her, Vincent? I wish you could have seen my queen today, Vincent
said. How young she was and radiant (Lalage were scarce fair beside her) said. How young she was and radiant (Lalage were scarce fair beside her)
in her yellow shoes and frock of muslin, I do not know the right name of in her yellow shoes and frock of muslin, I do not know the right name of
it. The chestnuts that shaded us were in bloom: the air drooped with it. The chestnuts that shaded us were in bloom: the air drooped with
their persuasive odour and with pollen floating by us. In the sunny their persuasive odour and with pollen floating by us. In the sunny
patches one might easily have cooked on a stone a batch of those buns patches one might easily have cooked on a stone a batch of those buns
with Corinth fruit in them that Periplipomenes sells in his booth near with Corinth fruit in them that Periplipomenes sells in his booth near
the bridge. But she had nought for her teeth but the arm with which I the bridge. But she had nought for her teeth but the arm with which I
held her and in that she nibbled mischievously when I pressed too close. held her and in that she nibbled mischievously when I pressed too close.
A week ago she lay ill, four days on the couch, but today she was free, A week ago she lay ill, four days on the couch, but today she was free,
blithe, mocked at peril. She is more taking then. Her posies tool Mad blithe, mocked at peril. She is more taking then. Her posies tool Mad
romp that she is, she had pulled her fill as we reclined together. And in romp that she is, she had pulled her fill as we reclined together. And in
your ear, my friend, you will not think who met us as we left the field. your ear, my friend, you will not think who met us as we left the field.
Conmee himself! He was walking by the hedge, reading, I think a brevier Conmee himself! He was walking by the hedge, reading, I think a brevier
book with, I doubt not, a witty letter in it from Glycera or Chloe to book with, I doubt not, a witty letter in it from Glycera or Chloe to
keep the page. The sweet creature turned all colours in her confusion, keep the page. The sweet creature turned all colours in her confusion,
feigning to reprove a slight disorder in her dress: a slip of underwood feigning to reprove a slight disorder in her dress: a slip of underwood
clung there for the very trees adore her. When Conmee had passed she clung there for the very trees adore her. When Conmee had passed she
glanced at her lovely echo in that little mirror she carries. But he had glanced at her lovely echo in that little mirror she carries. But he had
been kind. In going by he had blessed us. The gods too are ever kind, been kind. In going by he had blessed us. The gods too are ever kind,
Lenehan said. If I had poor luck with Bass's mare perhaps this draught of Lenehan said. If I had poor luck with Bass's mare perhaps this draught of
his may serve me more propensely. He was laying his hand upon a winejar: his may serve me more propensely. He was laying his hand upon a winejar:
Malachi saw it and withheld his act, pointing to the stranger and to the Malachi saw it and withheld his act, pointing to the stranger and to the
scarlet label. Warily, Malachi whispered, preserve a druid silence. His scarlet label. Warily, Malachi whispered, preserve a druid silence. His
soul is far away. It is as painful perhaps to be awakened from a vision soul is far away. It is as painful perhaps to be awakened from a vision
as to be born. Any object, intensely regarded, may be a gate of access to as to be born. Any object, intensely regarded, may be a gate of access to
the incorruptible eon of the gods. Do you not think it, Stephen? the incorruptible eon of the gods. Do you not think it, Stephen?
Theosophos told me so, Stephen answered, whom in a previous existence Theosophos told me so, Stephen answered, whom in a previous existence
Egyptian priests initiated into the mysteries of karmic law. The lords of Egyptian priests initiated into the mysteries of karmic law. The lords of
the moon, Theosophos told me, an orangefiery shipload from planet Alpha the moon, Theosophos told me, an orangefiery shipload from planet Alpha
of the lunar chain would not assume the etheric doubles and these were of the lunar chain would not assume the etheric doubles and these were
therefore incarnated by the rubycoloured egos from the second therefore incarnated by the rubycoloured egos from the second
constellation. constellation.
However, as a matter of fact though, the preposterous surmise about him However, as a matter of fact though, the preposterous surmise about him
being in some description of a doldrums or other or mesmerised which was. being in some description of a doldrums or other or mesmerised which was.
entirely due to a misconception of the shallowest character, was not the entirely due to a misconception of the shallowest character, was not the
case at all. The individual whose visual organs while the above was going case at all. The individual whose visual organs while the above was going
on were at this juncture commencing to exhibit symptoms of animation was on were at this juncture commencing to exhibit symptoms of animation was
as astute if not astuter than any man living and anybody that conjectured as astute if not astuter than any man living and anybody that conjectured
the contrary would have found themselves pretty speedily in the wrong the contrary would have found themselves pretty speedily in the wrong
shop. During the past four minutes or thereabouts he had been staring shop. During the past four minutes or thereabouts he had been staring
hard at a certain amount of number one Bass bottled by Messrs Bass and Co hard at a certain amount of number one Bass bottled by Messrs Bass and Co
at Burton-on-Trent which happened to be situated amongst a lot of others at Burton-on-Trent which happened to be situated amongst a lot of others
right opposite to where he was and which was certainly calculated to right opposite to where he was and which was certainly calculated to
attract anyone's remark on account of its scarlet appearance. He was attract anyone's remark on account of its scarlet appearance. He was
simply and solely, as it subsequently transpired for reasons best known simply and solely, as it subsequently transpired for reasons best known
to himself, which put quite an altogether different complexion on the to himself, which put quite an altogether different complexion on the
proceedings, after the moment before's observations about boyhood days proceedings, after the moment before's observations about boyhood days
and the turf, recollecting two or three private transactions of his own and the turf, recollecting two or three private transactions of his own
which the other two were as mutually innocent of as the babe unborn. which the other two were as mutually innocent of as the babe unborn.
Eventually, however, both their eyes met and as soon as it began to dawn Eventually, however, both their eyes met and as soon as it began to dawn
on him that the other was endeavouring to help himself to the thing he on him that the other was endeavouring to help himself to the thing he
involuntarily determined to help him himself and so he accordingly took involuntarily determined to help him himself and so he accordingly took
hold of the neck of the mediumsized glass recipient which contained the hold of the neck of the mediumsized glass recipient which contained the
fluid sought after and made a capacious hole in it by pouring a lot of it fluid sought after and made a capacious hole in it by pouring a lot of it
out with, also at the same time, however, a considerable degree of out with, also at the same time, however, a considerable degree of
attentiveness in order not to upset any of the beer that was in it about attentiveness in order not to upset any of the beer that was in it about
the place. the place.
The debate which ensued was in its scope and progress an epitome of the The debate which ensued was in its scope and progress an epitome of the
course of life. Neither place nor council was lacking in dignity. The course of life. Neither place nor council was lacking in dignity. The
debaters were the keenest in the land, the theme they were engaged on the debaters were the keenest in the land, the theme they were engaged on the
loftiest and most vital. The high hall of Horne's house had never beheld loftiest and most vital. The high hall of Horne's house had never beheld
an assembly so representative and so varied nor had the old rafters of an assembly so representative and so varied nor had the old rafters of
that establishment ever listened to a language so encyclopaedic. A that establishment ever listened to a language so encyclopaedic. A
gallant scene in truth it made. Crotthers was there at the foot of the gallant scene in truth it made. Crotthers was there at the foot of the
table in his striking Highland garb, his face glowing from the briny airs table in his striking Highland garb, his face glowing from the briny airs
of the Mull of Galloway. There too, opposite to him, was Lynch whose of the Mull of Galloway. There too, opposite to him, was Lynch whose
countenance bore already the stigmata of early depravity and premature countenance bore already the stigmata of early depravity and premature
wisdom. Next the Scotchman was the place assigned to Costello, the wisdom. Next the Scotchman was the place assigned to Costello, the
eccentric, while at his side was seated in stolid repose the squat form eccentric, while at his side was seated in stolid repose the squat form
of Madden. The chair of the resident indeed stood vacant before the of Madden. The chair of the resident indeed stood vacant before the
hearth but on either flank of it the figure of Bannon in explorer's kit hearth but on either flank of it the figure of Bannon in explorer's kit
of tweed shorts and salted cowhide brogues contrasted sharply with the of tweed shorts and salted cowhide brogues contrasted sharply with the
primrose elegance and townbred manners of Malachi Roland St John primrose elegance and townbred manners of Malachi Roland St John
Mulligan. Lastly at the head of the board was the young poet who found a Mulligan. Lastly at the head of the board was the young poet who found a
refuge from his labours of pedagogy and metaphysical inquisition in the refuge from his labours of pedagogy and metaphysical inquisition in the
convivial atmosphere of Socratic discussion, while to right and left of convivial atmosphere of Socratic discussion, while to right and left of
him were accommodated the flippant prognosticator, fresh from the him were accommodated the flippant prognosticator, fresh from the
hippodrome, and that vigilant wanderer, soiled by the dust of travel and hippodrome, and that vigilant wanderer, soiled by the dust of travel and
combat and stained by the mire of an indelible dishonour, but from whose combat and stained by the mire of an indelible dishonour, but from whose
steadfast and constant heart no lure or peril or threat or degradation steadfast and constant heart no lure or peril or threat or degradation
could ever efface the image of that voluptuous loveliness which the could ever efface the image of that voluptuous loveliness which the
inspired pencil of Lafayette has limned for ages yet to come. inspired pencil of Lafayette has limned for ages yet to come.
It had better be stated here and now at the outset that the perverted It had better be stated here and now at the outset that the perverted
transcendentalism to which Mr S. Dedalus' (Div. Scep.) contentions would transcendentalism to which Mr S. Dedalus' (Div. Scep.) contentions would
appear to prove him pretty badly addicted runs directly counter to appear to prove him pretty badly addicted runs directly counter to
accepted scientific methods. Science, it cannot be too often repeated, accepted scientific methods. Science, it cannot be too often repeated,
deals with tangible phenomena. The man of science like the man in the deals with tangible phenomena. The man of science like the man in the
street has to face hardheaded facts that cannot be blinked and explain street has to face hardheaded facts that cannot be blinked and explain
them as best he can. There may be, it is true, some questions which them as best he can. There may be, it is true, some questions which
science cannot answer--at present--such as the first problem submitted by science cannot answer--at present--such as the first problem submitted by
Mr L. Bloom (Pubb. Canv.) regarding the future determination of sex. Must Mr L. Bloom (Pubb. Canv.) regarding the future determination of sex. Must
we accept the view of Empedocles of Trinacria that the right ovary (the we accept the view of Empedocles of Trinacria that the right ovary (the
postmenstrual period, assert others) is responsible for the birth of postmenstrual period, assert others) is responsible for the birth of
males or are the too long neglected spermatozoa or nemasperms the males or are the too long neglected spermatozoa or nemasperms the
differentiating factors or is it, as most embryologists incline to opine, differentiating factors or is it, as most embryologists incline to opine,
such as Culpepper, Spallanzani, Blumenbach, Lusk, Hertwig, Leopold and such as Culpepper, Spallanzani, Blumenbach, Lusk, Hertwig, Leopold and
Valenti, a mixture of both? This would be tantamount to a cooperation Valenti, a mixture of both? This would be tantamount to a cooperation
(one of nature's favourite devices) between the NISUS FORMATIVUS of the (one of nature's favourite devices) between the NISUS FORMATIVUS of the
nemasperm on the one hand and on the other a happily chosen position, nemasperm on the one hand and on the other a happily chosen position,
SUCCUBITUS FELIX of the passive element. The other problem raised by the SUCCUBITUS FELIX of the passive element. The other problem raised by the
same inquirer is scarcely less vital: infant mortality. It is interesting same inquirer is scarcely less vital: infant mortality. It is interesting
because, as he pertinently remarks, we are all born in the same way but because, as he pertinently remarks, we are all born in the same way but
we all die in different ways. Mr M. Mulligan (Hyg. et Eug. Doc.) blames we all die in different ways. Mr M. Mulligan (Hyg. et Eug. Doc.) blames
the sanitary conditions in which our greylunged citizens contract the sanitary conditions in which our greylunged citizens contract
adenoids, pulmonary complaints etc. by inhaling the bacteria which lurk adenoids, pulmonary complaints etc. by inhaling the bacteria which lurk
in dust. These factors, he alleged, and the revolting spectacles offered in dust. These factors, he alleged, and the revolting spectacles offered
by our streets, hideous publicity posters, religious ministers of all by our streets, hideous publicity posters, religious ministers of all
denominations, mutilated soldiers and sailors, exposed scorbutic denominations, mutilated soldiers and sailors, exposed scorbutic
cardrivers, the suspended carcases of dead animals, paranoic bachelors cardrivers, the suspended carcases of dead animals, paranoic bachelors
and unfructified duennas--these, he said, were accountable for any and and unfructified duennas--these, he said, were accountable for any and
every fallingoff in the calibre of the race. Kalipedia, he prophesied, every fallingoff in the calibre of the race. Kalipedia, he prophesied,
would soon be generally adopted and all the graces of life, genuinely would soon be generally adopted and all the graces of life, genuinely
good music, agreeable literature, light philosophy, instructive pictures, good music, agreeable literature, light philosophy, instructive pictures,
plastercast reproductions of the classical statues such as Venus and plastercast reproductions of the classical statues such as Venus and
Apollo, artistic coloured photographs of prize babies, all these little Apollo, artistic coloured photographs of prize babies, all these little
attentions would enable ladies who were in a particular condition to pass attentions would enable ladies who were in a particular condition to pass
the intervening months in a most enjoyable manner. Mr J. Crotthers (Disc. the intervening months in a most enjoyable manner. Mr J. Crotthers (Disc.
Bacc.) attributes some of these demises to abdominal trauma in the case Bacc.) attributes some of these demises to abdominal trauma in the case
of women workers subjected to heavy labours in the workshop and to of women workers subjected to heavy labours in the workshop and to
marital discipline in the home but by far the vast majority to neglect, marital discipline in the home but by far the vast majority to neglect,
private or official, culminating in the exposure of newborn infants, the private or official, culminating in the exposure of newborn infants, the
practice of criminal abortion or in the atrocious crime of infanticide. practice of criminal abortion or in the atrocious crime of infanticide.
Although the former (we are thinking of neglect) is undoubtedly only too Although the former (we are thinking of neglect) is undoubtedly only too
true the case he cites of nurses forgetting to count the sponges in the true the case he cites of nurses forgetting to count the sponges in the
peritoneal cavity is too rare to be normative. In fact when one comes to peritoneal cavity is too rare to be normative. In fact when one comes to
look into it the wonder is that so many pregnancies and deliveries go off look into it the wonder is that so many pregnancies and deliveries go off
so well as they do, all things considered and in spite of our human so well as they do, all things considered and in spite of our human
shortcomings which often baulk nature in her intentions. An ingenious shortcomings which often baulk nature in her intentions. An ingenious
suggestion is that thrown out by Mr V. Lynch (Bacc. Arith.) that both suggestion is that thrown out by Mr V. Lynch (Bacc. Arith.) that both
natality and mortality, as well as all other phenomena of evolution, natality and mortality, as well as all other phenomena of evolution,
tidal movements, lunar phases, blood temperatures, diseases in general, tidal movements, lunar phases, blood temperatures, diseases in general,
everything, in fine, in nature's vast workshop from the extinction of everything, in fine, in nature's vast workshop from the extinction of
some remote sun to the blossoming of one of the countless flowers which some remote sun to the blossoming of one of the countless flowers which
beautify our public parks is subject to a law of numeration as yet beautify our public parks is subject to a law of numeration as yet
unascertained. Still the plain straightforward question why a child of unascertained. Still the plain straightforward question why a child of
normally healthy parents and seemingly a healthy child and properly normally healthy parents and seemingly a healthy child and properly
looked after succumbs unaccountably in early childhood (though other looked after succumbs unaccountably in early childhood (though other
children of the same marriage do not) must certainly, in the poet's children of the same marriage do not) must certainly, in the poet's
words, give us pause. Nature, we may rest assured, has her own good and words, give us pause. Nature, we may rest assured, has her own good and
cogent reasons for whatever she does and in all probability such deaths cogent reasons for whatever she does and in all probability such deaths
are due to some law of anticipation by which organisms in which morbous are due to some law of anticipation by which organisms in which morbous
germs have taken up their residence (modern science has conclusively germs have taken up their residence (modern science has conclusively
shown that only the plasmic substance can be said to be immortal) tend to shown that only the plasmic substance can be said to be immortal) tend to
disappear at an increasingly earlier stage of development, an arrangement disappear at an increasingly earlier stage of development, an arrangement
which, though productive of pain to some of our feelings (notably the which, though productive of pain to some of our feelings (notably the
maternal), is nevertheless, some of us think, in the long run beneficial maternal), is nevertheless, some of us think, in the long run beneficial
to the race in general in securing thereby the survival of the fittest. to the race in general in securing thereby the survival of the fittest.
Mr S. Dedalus' (Div. Scep.) remark (or should it be called an Mr S. Dedalus' (Div. Scep.) remark (or should it be called an
interruption?) that an omnivorous being which can masticate, deglute, interruption?) that an omnivorous being which can masticate, deglute,
digest and apparently pass through the ordinary channel with digest and apparently pass through the ordinary channel with
pluterperfect imperturbability such multifarious aliments as cancrenous pluterperfect imperturbability such multifarious aliments as cancrenous
females emaciated by parturition, corpulent professional gentlemen, not females emaciated by parturition, corpulent professional gentlemen, not
to speak of jaundiced politicians and chlorotic nuns, might possibly find to speak of jaundiced politicians and chlorotic nuns, might possibly find
gastric relief in an innocent collation of staggering bob, reveals as gastric relief in an innocent collation of staggering bob, reveals as
nought else could and in a very unsavoury light the tendency above nought else could and in a very unsavoury light the tendency above
alluded to. For the enlightenment of those who are not so intimately alluded to. For the enlightenment of those who are not so intimately
acquainted with the minutiae of the municipal abattoir as this acquainted with the minutiae of the municipal abattoir as this
morbidminded esthete and embryo philosopher who for all his overweening morbidminded esthete and embryo philosopher who for all his overweening
bumptiousness in things scientific can scarcely distinguish an acid from bumptiousness in things scientific can scarcely distinguish an acid from
an alkali prides himself on being, it should perhaps be stated that an alkali prides himself on being, it should perhaps be stated that
staggering bob in the vile parlance of our lowerclass licensed staggering bob in the vile parlance of our lowerclass licensed
victuallers signifies the cookable and eatable flesh of a calf newly victuallers signifies the cookable and eatable flesh of a calf newly
dropped from its mother. In a recent public controversy with Mr L. Bloom dropped from its mother. In a recent public controversy with Mr L. Bloom
(Pubb. Canv.) which took place in the commons' hall of the National (Pubb. Canv.) which took place in the commons' hall of the National
Maternity Hospital, 29, 30 and 31 Holles street, of which, as is well Maternity Hospital, 29, 30 and 31 Holles street, of which, as is well
known, Dr A. Horne (Lic. in Midw., F. K. Q. C. P. I.) is the able and known, Dr A. Horne (Lic. in Midw., F. K. Q. C. P. I.) is the able and
popular master, he is reported by eyewitnesses as having stated that once popular master, he is reported by eyewitnesses as having stated that once
a woman has let the cat into the bag (an esthete's allusion, presumably, a woman has let the cat into the bag (an esthete's allusion, presumably,
to one of the most complicated and marvellous of all nature's processes-- to one of the most complicated and marvellous of all nature's processes--
the act of sexual congress) she must let it out again or give it life, as the act of sexual congress) she must let it out again or give it life, as
he phrased it, to save her own. At the risk of her own, was the telling he phrased it, to save her own. At the risk of her own, was the telling
rejoinder of his interlocutor, none the less effective for the moderate rejoinder of his interlocutor, none the less effective for the moderate
and measured tone in which it was delivered. and measured tone in which it was delivered.
Meanwhile the skill and patience of the physician had brought about a Meanwhile the skill and patience of the physician had brought about a
happy ACCOUCHEMENT. It had been a weary weary while both for patient and happy ACCOUCHEMENT. It had been a weary weary while both for patient and
doctor. All that surgical skill could do was done and the brave woman had doctor. All that surgical skill could do was done and the brave woman had
manfully helped. She had. She had fought the good fight and now she was manfully helped. She had. She had fought the good fight and now she was
very very happy. Those who have passed on, who have gone before, are very very happy. Those who have passed on, who have gone before, are
happy too as they gaze down and smile upon the touching scene. Reverently happy too as they gaze down and smile upon the touching scene. Reverently
look at her as she reclines there with the motherlight in her eyes, that look at her as she reclines there with the motherlight in her eyes, that
longing hunger for baby fingers (a pretty sight it is to see), in the longing hunger for baby fingers (a pretty sight it is to see), in the
first bloom of her new motherhood, breathing a silent prayer of first bloom of her new motherhood, breathing a silent prayer of
thanksgiving to One above, the Universal Husband. And as her loving eyes thanksgiving to One above, the Universal Husband. And as her loving eyes
behold her babe she wishes only one blessing more, to have her dear Doady behold her babe she wishes only one blessing more, to have her dear Doady
there with her to share her joy, to lay in his arms that mite of God's there with her to share her joy, to lay in his arms that mite of God's
clay, the fruit of their lawful embraces. He is older now (you and I may clay, the fruit of their lawful embraces. He is older now (you and I may
whisper it) and a trifle stooped in the shoulders yet in the whirligig of whisper it) and a trifle stooped in the shoulders yet in the whirligig of
years a grave dignity has come to the conscientious second accountant of years a grave dignity has come to the conscientious second accountant of
the Ulster bank, College Green branch. O Doady, loved one of old, the Ulster bank, College Green branch. O Doady, loved one of old,
faithful lifemate now, it may never be again, that faroff time of the faithful lifemate now, it may never be again, that faroff time of the
roses! With the old shake of her pretty head she recalls those days. God! roses! With the old shake of her pretty head she recalls those days. God!
How beautiful now across the mist of years! But their children are How beautiful now across the mist of years! But their children are
grouped in her imagination about the bedside, hers and his, Charley, Mary grouped in her imagination about the bedside, hers and his, Charley, Mary
Alice, Frederick Albert (if he had lived), Mamy, Budgy (Victoria Alice, Frederick Albert (if he had lived), Mamy, Budgy (Victoria
Frances), Tom, Violet Constance Louisa, darling little Bobsy (called Frances), Tom, Violet Constance Louisa, darling little Bobsy (called
after our famous hero of the South African war, lord Bobs of Waterford after our famous hero of the South African war, lord Bobs of Waterford
and Candahar) and now this last pledge of their union, a Purefoy if ever and Candahar) and now this last pledge of their union, a Purefoy if ever
there was one, with the true Purefoy nose. Young hopeful will be there was one, with the true Purefoy nose. Young hopeful will be
christened Mortimer Edward after the influential third cousin of Mr christened Mortimer Edward after the influential third cousin of Mr
Purefoy in the Treasury Remembrancer's office, Dublin Castle. And so time Purefoy in the Treasury Remembrancer's office, Dublin Castle. And so time
wags on: but father Cronion has dealt lightly here. No, let no sigh break wags on: but father Cronion has dealt lightly here. No, let no sigh break
from that bosom, dear gentle Mina. And Doady, knock the ashes from your from that bosom, dear gentle Mina. And Doady, knock the ashes from your
pipe, the seasoned briar you still fancy when the curfew rings for you pipe, the seasoned briar you still fancy when the curfew rings for you
(may it be the distant day!) and dout the light whereby you read in the (may it be the distant day!) and dout the light whereby you read in the
Sacred Book for the oil too has run low, and so with a tranquil heart to Sacred Book for the oil too has run low, and so with a tranquil heart to
bed, to rest. He knows and will call in His own good time. You too have bed, to rest. He knows and will call in His own good time. You too have
fought the good fight and played loyally your man's part. Sir, to you my fought the good fight and played loyally your man's part. Sir, to you my
hand. Well done, thou good and faithful servant! hand. Well done, thou good and faithful servant!
There are sins or (let us call them as the world calls them) evil There are sins or (let us call them as the world calls them) evil
memories which are hidden away by man in the darkest places of the heart memories which are hidden away by man in the darkest places of the heart
but they abide there and wait. He may suffer their memory to grow dim, but they abide there and wait. He may suffer their memory to grow dim,
let them be as though they had not been and all but persuade himself that let them be as though they had not been and all but persuade himself that
kiss long and hot down to your soul almost paralyses you then I hate that kiss long and hot down to your soul almost paralyses you then I hate that
confession when I used to go to Father Corrigan he touched me father and confession when I used to go to Father Corrigan he touched me father and
what harm if he did where and I said on the canal bank like a fool but what harm if he did where and I said on the canal bank like a fool but
whereabouts on your person my child on the leg behind high up was it yes whereabouts on your person my child on the leg behind high up was it yes
rather high up was it where you sit down yes O Lord couldnt he say bottom rather high up was it where you sit down yes O Lord couldnt he say bottom
right out and have done with it what has that got to do with it and did right out and have done with it what has that got to do with it and did
you whatever way he put it I forget no father and I always think of the you whatever way he put it I forget no father and I always think of the
real father what did he want to know for when I already confessed it to real father what did he want to know for when I already confessed it to
God he had a nice fat hand the palm moist always I wouldnt mind feeling God he had a nice fat hand the palm moist always I wouldnt mind feeling
it neither would he Id say by the bullneck in his horsecollar I wonder it neither would he Id say by the bullneck in his horsecollar I wonder
did he know me in the box I could see his face he couldnt see mine of did he know me in the box I could see his face he couldnt see mine of
course hed never turn or let on still his eyes were red when his father course hed never turn or let on still his eyes were red when his father
died theyre lost for a woman of course must be terrible when a man cries died theyre lost for a woman of course must be terrible when a man cries
let alone them Id like to be embraced by one in his vestments and the let alone them Id like to be embraced by one in his vestments and the
smell of incense off him like the pope besides theres no danger with a smell of incense off him like the pope besides theres no danger with a
priest if youre married hes too careful about himself then give something priest if youre married hes too careful about himself then give something
to H H the pope for a penance I wonder was he satisfied with me one thing to H H the pope for a penance I wonder was he satisfied with me one thing
I didnt like his slapping me behind going away so familiarly in the hall I didnt like his slapping me behind going away so familiarly in the hall
though I laughed Im not a horse or an ass am I I suppose he was thinking though I laughed Im not a horse or an ass am I I suppose he was thinking
of his fathers I wonder is he awake thinking of me or dreaming am I in it of his fathers I wonder is he awake thinking of me or dreaming am I in it
who gave him that flower he said he bought he smelt of some kind of drink who gave him that flower he said he bought he smelt of some kind of drink
not whisky or stout or perhaps the sweety kind of paste they stick their not whisky or stout or perhaps the sweety kind of paste they stick their
bills up with some liqueur Id like to sip those richlooking green and bills up with some liqueur Id like to sip those richlooking green and
yellow expensive drinks those stagedoor johnnies drink with the opera yellow expensive drinks those stagedoor johnnies drink with the opera
hats I tasted once with my finger dipped out of that American that had hats I tasted once with my finger dipped out of that American that had
the squirrel talking stamps with father he had all he could do to keep the squirrel talking stamps with father he had all he could do to keep
himself from falling asleep after the last time after we took the port himself from falling asleep after the last time after we took the port
and potted meat it had a fine salty taste yes because I felt lovely and and potted meat it had a fine salty taste yes because I felt lovely and
tired myself and fell asleep as sound as a top the moment I popped tired myself and fell asleep as sound as a top the moment I popped
straight into bed till that thunder woke me up God be merciful to us I straight into bed till that thunder woke me up God be merciful to us I
thought the heavens were coming down about us to punish us when I blessed thought the heavens were coming down about us to punish us when I blessed
myself and said a Hail Mary like those awful thunderbolts in Gibraltar as myself and said a Hail Mary like those awful thunderbolts in Gibraltar as
if the world was coming to an end and then they come and tell you theres if the world was coming to an end and then they come and tell you theres
no God what could you do if it was running and rushing about nothing only no God what could you do if it was running and rushing about nothing only
make an act of contrition the candle I lit that evening in Whitefriars make an act of contrition the candle I lit that evening in Whitefriars
street chapel for the month of May see it brought its luck though hed street chapel for the month of May see it brought its luck though hed
scoff if he heard because he never goes to church mass or meeting he says scoff if he heard because he never goes to church mass or meeting he says
your soul you have no soul inside only grey matter because he doesnt know your soul you have no soul inside only grey matter because he doesnt know
what it is to have one yes when I lit the lamp because he must have come what it is to have one yes when I lit the lamp because he must have come
3 or 4 times with that tremendous big red brute of a thing he has I 3 or 4 times with that tremendous big red brute of a thing he has I
thought the vein or whatever the dickens they call it was going to burst thought the vein or whatever the dickens they call it was going to burst
though his nose is not so big after I took off all my things with the though his nose is not so big after I took off all my things with the
blinds down after my hours dressing and perfuming and combing it like blinds down after my hours dressing and perfuming and combing it like
iron or some kind of a thick crowbar standing all the time he must have iron or some kind of a thick crowbar standing all the time he must have
eaten oysters I think a few dozen he was in great singing voice no I eaten oysters I think a few dozen he was in great singing voice no I
never in all my life felt anyone had one the size of that to make you never in all my life felt anyone had one the size of that to make you
feel full up he must have eaten a whole sheep after whats the idea making feel full up he must have eaten a whole sheep after whats the idea making
us like that with a big hole in the middle of us or like a Stallion us like that with a big hole in the middle of us or like a Stallion
driving it up into you because thats all they want out of you with that driving it up into you because thats all they want out of you with that
determined vicious look in his eye I had to halfshut my eyes still he determined vicious look in his eye I had to halfshut my eyes still he
hasnt such a tremendous amount of spunk in him when I made him pull out hasnt such a tremendous amount of spunk in him when I made him pull out
and do it on me considering how big it is so much the better in case any and do it on me considering how big it is so much the better in case any
of it wasnt washed out properly the last time I let him finish it in me of it wasnt washed out properly the last time I let him finish it in me
nice invention they made for women for him to get all the pleasure but if nice invention they made for women for him to get all the pleasure but if
someone gave them a touch of it themselves theyd know what I went through someone gave them a touch of it themselves theyd know what I went through
with Milly nobody would believe cutting her teeth too and Mina Purefoys with Milly nobody would believe cutting her teeth too and Mina Purefoys
husband give us a swing out of your whiskers filling her up with a child husband give us a swing out of your whiskers filling her up with a child
or twins once a year as regular as the clock always with a smell of or twins once a year as regular as the clock always with a smell of
children off her the one they called budgers or something like a nigger children off her the one they called budgers or something like a nigger
with a shock of hair on it Jesusjack the child is a black the last time I with a shock of hair on it Jesusjack the child is a black the last time I
was there a squad of them falling over one another and bawling you was there a squad of them falling over one another and bawling you
couldnt hear your ears supposed to be healthy not satisfied till they couldnt hear your ears supposed to be healthy not satisfied till they
have us swollen out like elephants or I dont know what supposing I risked have us swollen out like elephants or I dont know what supposing I risked
having another not off him though still if he was married Im sure hed having another not off him though still if he was married Im sure hed
have a fine strong child but I dont know Poldy has more spunk in him yes have a fine strong child but I dont know Poldy has more spunk in him yes
thatd be awfully jolly I suppose it was meeting Josie Powell and the thatd be awfully jolly I suppose it was meeting Josie Powell and the
funeral and thinking about me and Boylan set him off well he can think funeral and thinking about me and Boylan set him off well he can think
what he likes now if thatll do him any good I know they were spooning a what he likes now if thatll do him any good I know they were spooning a
bit when I came on the scene he was dancing and sitting out with her the bit when I came on the scene he was dancing and sitting out with her the
night of Georgina Simpsons housewarming and then he wanted to ram it down night of Georgina Simpsons housewarming and then he wanted to ram it down
my neck it was on account of not liking to see her a wallflower that was my neck it was on account of not liking to see her a wallflower that was
why we had the standup row over politics he began it not me when he said why we had the standup row over politics he began it not me when he said
about Our Lord being a carpenter at last he made me cry of course a woman about Our Lord being a carpenter at last he made me cry of course a woman
is so sensitive about everything I was fuming with myself after for is so sensitive about everything I was fuming with myself after for
giving in only for I knew he was gone on me and the first socialist he giving in only for I knew he was gone on me and the first socialist he
said He was he annoyed me so much I couldnt put him into a temper still said He was he annoyed me so much I couldnt put him into a temper still
he knows a lot of mixedup things especially about the body and the inside he knows a lot of mixedup things especially about the body and the inside
I often wanted to study up that myself what we have inside us in that I often wanted to study up that myself what we have inside us in that
family physician I could always hear his voice talking when the room was family physician I could always hear his voice talking when the room was
crowded and watch him after that I pretended I had a coolness on with her crowded and watch him after that I pretended I had a coolness on with her
over him because he used to be a bit on the jealous side whenever he over him because he used to be a bit on the jealous side whenever he
asked who are you going to and I said over to Floey and he made me the asked who are you going to and I said over to Floey and he made me the
present of Byron's poems and the three pairs of gloves so that finished present of Byron's poems and the three pairs of gloves so that finished
that I could quite easily get him to make it up any time I know how Id that I could quite easily get him to make it up any time I know how Id
even supposing he got in with her again and was going out to see her even supposing he got in with her again and was going out to see her
somewhere Id know if he refused to eat the onions I know plenty of ways somewhere Id know if he refused to eat the onions I know plenty of ways
ask him to tuck down the collar of my blouse or touch him with my veil ask him to tuck down the collar of my blouse or touch him with my veil
and gloves on going out I kiss then would send them all spinning however and gloves on going out I kiss then would send them all spinning however
alright well see then let him go to her she of course would only be too alright well see then let him go to her she of course would only be too
delighted to pretend shes mad in love with him that I wouldnt so much delighted to pretend shes mad in love with him that I wouldnt so much
mind Id just go to her and ask her do you love him and look her square in mind Id just go to her and ask her do you love him and look her square in
the eyes she couldnt fool me but he might imagine he was and make a the eyes she couldnt fool me but he might imagine he was and make a
declaration to her with his plabbery kind of a manner like he did to me declaration to her with his plabbery kind of a manner like he did to me
though I had the devils own job to get it out of him though I liked him though I had the devils own job to get it out of him though I liked him
for that it showed he could hold in and wasnt to be got for the asking he for that it showed he could hold in and wasnt to be got for the asking he
was on the pop of asking me too the night in the kitchen I was rolling was on the pop of asking me too the night in the kitchen I was rolling
the potato cake theres something I want to say to you only for I put him the potato cake theres something I want to say to you only for I put him
off letting on I was in a temper with my hands and arms full of pasty off letting on I was in a temper with my hands and arms full of pasty
flour in any case I let out too much the night before talking of dreams flour in any case I let out too much the night before talking of dreams
so I didnt want to let him know more than was good for him she used to be so I didnt want to let him know more than was good for him she used to be
always embracing me Josie whenever he was there meaning him of course always embracing me Josie whenever he was there meaning him of course
glauming me over and when I said I washed up and down as far as possible glauming me over and when I said I washed up and down as far as possible
asking me and did you wash possible the women are always egging on to asking me and did you wash possible the women are always egging on to
that putting it on thick when hes there they know by his sly eye blinking that putting it on thick when hes there they know by his sly eye blinking
a bit putting on the indifferent when they come out with something the a bit putting on the indifferent when they come out with something the
kind he is what spoils him I dont wonder in the least because he was very kind he is what spoils him I dont wonder in the least because he was very
handsome at that time trying to look like Lord Byron I said I liked handsome at that time trying to look like Lord Byron I said I liked
though he was too beautiful for a man and he was a little before we got though he was too beautiful for a man and he was a little before we got
engaged afterwards though she didnt like it so much the day I was in fits engaged afterwards though she didnt like it so much the day I was in fits
of laughing with the giggles I couldnt stop about all my hairpins falling of laughing with the giggles I couldnt stop about all my hairpins falling
out one after another with the mass of hair I had youre always in great out one after another with the mass of hair I had youre always in great
humour she said yes because it grigged her because she knew what it meant humour she said yes because it grigged her because she knew what it meant
because I used to tell her a good bit of what went on between us not all because I used to tell her a good bit of what went on between us not all
but just enough to make her mouth water but that wasnt my fault she didnt but just enough to make her mouth water but that wasnt my fault she didnt
darken the door much after we were married I wonder what shes got like darken the door much after we were married I wonder what shes got like
now after living with that dotty husband of hers she had her face now after living with that dotty husband of hers she had her face
beginning to look drawn and run down the last time I saw her she must beginning to look drawn and run down the last time I saw her she must
have been just after a row with him because I saw on the moment she was have been just after a row with him because I saw on the moment she was
edging to draw down a conversation about husbands and talk about him to edging to draw down a conversation about husbands and talk about him to
run him down what was it she told me O yes that sometimes he used to go run him down what was it she told me O yes that sometimes he used to go
to bed with his muddy boots on when the maggot takes him just imagine to bed with his muddy boots on when the maggot takes him just imagine
having to get into bed with a thing like that that might murder you any having to get into bed with a thing like that that might murder you any
moment what a man well its not the one way everyone goes mad Poldy anyhow moment what a man well its not the one way everyone goes mad Poldy anyhow
whatever he does always wipes his feet on the mat when he comes in wet or whatever he does always wipes his feet on the mat when he comes in wet or
shine and always blacks his own boots too and he always takes off his hat shine and always blacks his own boots too and he always takes off his hat
when he comes up in the street like then and now hes going about in his when he comes up in the street like then and now hes going about in his
slippers to look for 10000 pounds for a postcard U p up O sweetheart May slippers to look for 10000 pounds for a postcard U p up O sweetheart May
wouldnt a thing like that simply bore you stiff to extinction actually wouldnt a thing like that simply bore you stiff to extinction actually
too stupid even to take his boots off now what could you make of a man too stupid even to take his boots off now what could you make of a man
like that Id rather die 20 times over than marry another of their sex of like that Id rather die 20 times over than marry another of their sex of
course hed never find another woman like me to put up with him the way I course hed never find another woman like me to put up with him the way I
do know me come sleep with me yes and he knows that too at the bottom of do know me come sleep with me yes and he knows that too at the bottom of
his heart take that Mrs Maybrick that poisoned her husband for what I his heart take that Mrs Maybrick that poisoned her husband for what I
wonder in love with some other man yes it was found out on her wasnt she wonder in love with some other man yes it was found out on her wasnt she
the downright villain to go and do a thing like that of course some men the downright villain to go and do a thing like that of course some men
can be dreadfully aggravating drive you mad and always the worst word in can be dreadfully aggravating drive you mad and always the worst word in
the world what do they ask us to marry them for if were so bad as all the world what do they ask us to marry them for if were so bad as all
that comes to yes because they cant get on without us white Arsenic she that comes to yes because they cant get on without us white Arsenic she
put in his tea off flypaper wasnt it I wonder why they call it that if I put in his tea off flypaper wasnt it I wonder why they call it that if I
asked him hed say its from the Greek leave us as wise as we were before asked him hed say its from the Greek leave us as wise as we were before
she must have been madly in love with the other fellow to run the chance she must have been madly in love with the other fellow to run the chance
of being hanged O she didnt care if that was her nature what could she do of being hanged O she didnt care if that was her nature what could she do
besides theyre not brutes enough to go and hang a woman surely are they besides theyre not brutes enough to go and hang a woman surely are they
theyre all so different Boylan talking about the shape of my foot he theyre all so different Boylan talking about the shape of my foot he
noticed at once even before he was introduced when I was in the D B C noticed at once even before he was introduced when I was in the D B C
with Poldy laughing and trying to listen I was waggling my foot we both with Poldy laughing and trying to listen I was waggling my foot we both
ordered 2 teas and plain bread and butter I saw him looking with his two ordered 2 teas and plain bread and butter I saw him looking with his two
old maids of sisters when I stood up and asked the girl where it was what old maids of sisters when I stood up and asked the girl where it was what
do I care with it dropping out of me and that black closed breeches he do I care with it dropping out of me and that black closed breeches he
made me buy takes you half an hour to let them down wetting all myself made me buy takes you half an hour to let them down wetting all myself
always with some brandnew fad every other week such a long one I did I always with some brandnew fad every other week such a long one I did I
forgot my suede gloves on the seat behind that I never got after some forgot my suede gloves on the seat behind that I never got after some
robber of a woman and he wanted me to put it in the Irish times lost in robber of a woman and he wanted me to put it in the Irish times lost in
the ladies lavatory D B C Dame street finder return to Mrs Marion Bloom the ladies lavatory D B C Dame street finder return to Mrs Marion Bloom
and I saw his eyes on my feet going out through the turning door he was and I saw his eyes on my feet going out through the turning door he was
looking when I looked back and I went there for tea 2 days after in the looking when I looked back and I went there for tea 2 days after in the
hope but he wasnt now how did that excite him because I was crossing them hope but he wasnt now how did that excite him because I was crossing them
when we were in the other room first he meant the shoes that are too when we were in the other room first he meant the shoes that are too
tight to walk in my hand is nice like that if I only had a ring with the tight to walk in my hand is nice like that if I only had a ring with the
stone for my month a nice aquamarine Ill stick him for one and a gold stone for my month a nice aquamarine Ill stick him for one and a gold
bracelet I dont like my foot so much still I made him spend once with my bracelet I dont like my foot so much still I made him spend once with my
foot the night after Goodwins botchup of a concert so cold and windy it foot the night after Goodwins botchup of a concert so cold and windy it
was well we had that rum in the house to mull and the fire wasnt black was well we had that rum in the house to mull and the fire wasnt black
out when he asked to take off my stockings lying on the hearthrug in out when he asked to take off my stockings lying on the hearthrug in
Lombard street west and another time it was my muddy boots hed like me to Lombard street west and another time it was my muddy boots hed like me to
walk in all the horses dung I could find but of course hes not natural walk in all the horses dung I could find but of course hes not natural
like the rest of the world that I what did he say I could give 9 points like the rest of the world that I what did he say I could give 9 points
in 10 to Katty Lanner and beat her what does that mean I asked him I in 10 to Katty Lanner and beat her what does that mean I asked him I
forget what he said because the stoppress edition just passed and the man forget what he said because the stoppress edition just passed and the man
with the curly hair in the Lucan dairy thats so polite I think I saw his with the curly hair in the Lucan dairy thats so polite I think I saw his
face before somewhere I noticed him when I was tasting the butter so I face before somewhere I noticed him when I was tasting the butter so I
took my time Bartell dArcy too that he used to make fun of when he took my time Bartell dArcy too that he used to make fun of when he
commenced kissing me on the choir stairs after I sang Gounods AVE MARIA commenced kissing me on the choir stairs after I sang Gounods AVE MARIA
what are we waiting for O my heart kiss me straight on the brow and part what are we waiting for O my heart kiss me straight on the brow and part
which is my brown part he was pretty hot for all his tinny voice too my which is my brown part he was pretty hot for all his tinny voice too my
low notes he was always raving about if you can believe him I liked the low notes he was always raving about if you can believe him I liked the
way he used his mouth singing then he said wasnt it terrible to do that way he used his mouth singing then he said wasnt it terrible to do that
there in a place like that I dont see anything so terrible about it Ill there in a place like that I dont see anything so terrible about it Ill
tell him about that some day not now and surprise him ay and Ill take him tell him about that some day not now and surprise him ay and Ill take him
there and show him the very place too we did it so now there you are like there and show him the very place too we did it so now there you are like
it or lump it he thinks nothing can happen without him knowing he hadnt it or lump it he thinks nothing can happen without him knowing he hadnt
an idea about my mother till we were engaged otherwise hed never have got an idea about my mother till we were engaged otherwise hed never have got
me so cheap as he did he was 10 times worse himself anyhow begging me to me so cheap as he did he was 10 times worse himself anyhow begging me to
give him a tiny bit cut off my drawers that was the evening coming along give him a tiny bit cut off my drawers that was the evening coming along
Kenilworth square he kissed me in the eye of my glove and I had to take Kenilworth square he kissed me in the eye of my glove and I had to take
it off asking me questions is it permitted to enquire the shape of my it off asking me questions is it permitted to enquire the shape of my
bedroom so I let him keep it as if I forgot it to think of me when I saw bedroom so I let him keep it as if I forgot it to think of me when I saw
him slip it into his pocket of course hes mad on the subject of drawers him slip it into his pocket of course hes mad on the subject of drawers
thats plain to be seen always skeezing at those brazenfaced things on the thats plain to be seen always skeezing at those brazenfaced things on the
bicycles with their skirts blowing up to their navels even when Milly and bicycles with their skirts blowing up to their navels even when Milly and
I were out with him at the open air fete that one in the cream muslin I were out with him at the open air fete that one in the cream muslin
standing right against the sun so he could see every atom she had on when standing right against the sun so he could see every atom she had on when
he saw me from behind following in the rain I saw him before he saw me he saw me from behind following in the rain I saw him before he saw me
however standing at the corner of the Harolds cross road with a new however standing at the corner of the Harolds cross road with a new
raincoat on him with the muffler in the Zingari colours to show off his raincoat on him with the muffler in the Zingari colours to show off his
complexion and the brown hat looking slyboots as usual what was he doing complexion and the brown hat looking slyboots as usual what was he doing
there where hed no business they can go and get whatever they like from there where hed no business they can go and get whatever they like from
anything at all with a skirt on it and were not to ask any questions but anything at all with a skirt on it and were not to ask any questions but
they want to know where were you where are you going I could feel him they want to know where were you where are you going I could feel him
coming along skulking after me his eyes on my neck he had been keeping coming along skulking after me his eyes on my neck he had been keeping
away from the house he felt it was getting too warm for him so I away from the house he felt it was getting too warm for him so I
halfturned and stopped then he pestered me to say yes till I took off my halfturned and stopped then he pestered me to say yes till I took off my
glove slowly watching him he said my openwork sleeves were too cold for glove slowly watching him he said my openwork sleeves were too cold for
the rain anything for an excuse to put his hand anear me drawers drawers the rain anything for an excuse to put his hand anear me drawers drawers
the whole blessed time till I promised to give him the pair off my doll the whole blessed time till I promised to give him the pair off my doll
to carry about in his waistcoat pocket O MARIA SANTISIMA he did look a to carry about in his waistcoat pocket O MARIA SANTISIMA he did look a
big fool dreeping in the rain splendid set of teeth he had made me hungry big fool dreeping in the rain splendid set of teeth he had made me hungry
to look at them and beseeched of me to lift the orange petticoat I had on to look at them and beseeched of me to lift the orange petticoat I had on
with the sunray pleats that there was nobody he said hed kneel down in with the sunray pleats that there was nobody he said hed kneel down in
the wet if I didnt so persevering he would too and ruin his new raincoat the wet if I didnt so persevering he would too and ruin his new raincoat
you never know what freak theyd take alone with you theyre so savage for you never know what freak theyd take alone with you theyre so savage for
it if anyone was passing so I lifted them a bit and touched his trousers it if anyone was passing so I lifted them a bit and touched his trousers
outside the way I used to Gardner after with my ring hand to keep him outside the way I used to Gardner after with my ring hand to keep him
from doing worse where it was too public I was dying to find out was he from doing worse where it was too public I was dying to find out was he
circumcised he was shaking like a jelly all over they want to do circumcised he was shaking like a jelly all over they want to do
everything too quick take all the pleasure out of it and father waiting everything too quick take all the pleasure out of it and father waiting
all the time for his dinner he told me to say I left my purse in the all the time for his dinner he told me to say I left my purse in the
butchers and had to go back for it what a Deceiver then he wrote me that butchers and had to go back for it what a Deceiver then he wrote me that
letter with all those words in it how could he have the face to any woman letter with all those words in it how could he have the face to any woman
after his company manners making it so awkward after when we met asking after his company manners making it so awkward after when we met asking
me have I offended you with my eyelids down of course he saw I wasnt he me have I offended you with my eyelids down of course he saw I wasnt he
had a few brains not like that other fool Henny Doyle he was always had a few brains not like that other fool Henny Doyle he was always
breaking or tearing something in the charades I hate an unlucky man and breaking or tearing something in the charades I hate an unlucky man and
if I knew what it meant of course I had to say no for form sake dont if I knew what it meant of course I had to say no for form sake dont
understand you I said and wasnt it natural so it is of course it used to understand you I said and wasnt it natural so it is of course it used to
be written up with a picture of a womans on that wall in Gibraltar with be written up with a picture of a womans on that wall in Gibraltar with
that word I couldnt find anywhere only for children seeing it too young that word I couldnt find anywhere only for children seeing it too young
then writing every morning a letter sometimes twice a day I liked the way then writing every morning a letter sometimes twice a day I liked the way
he made love then he knew the way to take a woman when he sent me the 8 he made love then he knew the way to take a woman when he sent me the 8
big poppies because mine was the 8th then I wrote the night he kissed my big poppies because mine was the 8th then I wrote the night he kissed my
heart at Dolphins barn I couldnt describe it simply it makes you feel heart at Dolphins barn I couldnt describe it simply it makes you feel
like nothing on earth but he never knew how to embrace well like Gardner like nothing on earth but he never knew how to embrace well like Gardner
I hope hell come on Monday as he said at the same time four I hate people I hope hell come on Monday as he said at the same time four I hate people
who come at all hours answer the door you think its the vegetables then who come at all hours answer the door you think its the vegetables then
its somebody and you all undressed or the door of the filthy sloppy its somebody and you all undressed or the door of the filthy sloppy
kitchen blows open the day old frostyface Goodwin called about the kitchen blows open the day old frostyface Goodwin called about the
concert in Lombard street and I just after dinner all flushed and tossed concert in Lombard street and I just after dinner all flushed and tossed
with boiling old stew dont look at me professor I had to say Im a fright with boiling old stew dont look at me professor I had to say Im a fright
yes but he was a real old gent in his way it was impossible to be more yes but he was a real old gent in his way it was impossible to be more
respectful nobody to say youre out you have to peep out through the blind respectful nobody to say youre out you have to peep out through the blind
like the messengerboy today I thought it was a putoff first him sending like the messengerboy today I thought it was a putoff first him sending
the port and the peaches first and I was just beginning to yawn with the port and the peaches first and I was just beginning to yawn with
nerves thinking he was trying to make a fool of me when I knew his nerves thinking he was trying to make a fool of me when I knew his
tattarrattat at the door he must have been a bit late because it was l/4 tattarrattat at the door he must have been a bit late because it was l/4
after 3 when I saw the 2 Dedalus girls coming from school I never know after 3 when I saw the 2 Dedalus girls coming from school I never know
the time even that watch he gave me never seems to go properly Id want to the time even that watch he gave me never seems to go properly Id want to
get it looked after when I threw the penny to that lame sailor for get it looked after when I threw the penny to that lame sailor for
England home and beauty when I was whistling there is a charming girl I England home and beauty when I was whistling there is a charming girl I
love and I hadnt even put on my clean shift or powdered myself or a thing love and I hadnt even put on my clean shift or powdered myself or a thing
then this day week were to go to Belfast just as well he has to go to then this day week were to go to Belfast just as well he has to go to
Ennis his fathers anniversary the 27th it wouldnt be pleasant if he did Ennis his fathers anniversary the 27th it wouldnt be pleasant if he did
suppose our rooms at the hotel were beside each other and any fooling suppose our rooms at the hotel were beside each other and any fooling
went on in the new bed I couldnt tell him to stop and not bother me with went on in the new bed I couldnt tell him to stop and not bother me with
him in the next room or perhaps some protestant clergyman with a cough him in the next room or perhaps some protestant clergyman with a cough
knocking on the wall then hed never believe the next day we didnt do knocking on the wall then hed never believe the next day we didnt do
something its all very well a husband but you cant fool a lover after me something its all very well a husband but you cant fool a lover after me
telling him we never did anything of course he didnt believe me no its telling him we never did anything of course he didnt believe me no its
better hes going where he is besides something always happens with him better hes going where he is besides something always happens with him
the time going to the Mallow concert at Maryborough ordering boiling soup the time going to the Mallow concert at Maryborough ordering boiling soup
for the two of us then the bell rang out he walks down the platform with for the two of us then the bell rang out he walks down the platform with
the soup splashing about taking spoonfuls of it hadnt he the nerve and the soup splashing about taking spoonfuls of it hadnt he the nerve and
the waiter after him making a holy show of us screeching and confusion the waiter after him making a holy show of us screeching and confusion
for the engine to start but he wouldnt pay till he finished it the two for the engine to start but he wouldnt pay till he finished it the two
gentlemen in the 3rd class carriage said he was quite right so he was too gentlemen in the 3rd class carriage said he was quite right so he was too
hes so pigheaded sometimes when he gets a thing into his head a good job hes so pigheaded sometimes when he gets a thing into his head a good job
he was able to open the carriage door with his knife or theyd have taken he was able to open the carriage door with his knife or theyd have taken
us on to Cork I suppose that was done out of revenge on him O I love us on to Cork I suppose that was done out of revenge on him O I love
jaunting in a train or a car with lovely soft cushions I wonder will he jaunting in a train or a car with lovely soft cushions I wonder will he
take a 1st class for me he might want to do it in the train by tipping take a 1st class for me he might want to do it in the train by tipping
the guard well O I suppose therell be the usual idiots of men gaping at the guard well O I suppose therell be the usual idiots of men gaping at
us with their eyes as stupid as ever they can possibly be that was an us with their eyes as stupid as ever they can possibly be that was an
exceptional man that common workman that left us alone in the carriage exceptional man that common workman that left us alone in the carriage
that day going to Howth Id like to find out something about him l or 2 that day going to Howth Id like to find out something about him l or 2
tunnels perhaps then you have to look out of the window all the nicer tunnels perhaps then you have to look out of the window all the nicer
then coming back suppose I never came back what would they say eloped then coming back suppose I never came back what would they say eloped
with him that gets you on on the stage the last concert I sang at where with him that gets you on on the stage the last concert I sang at where
its over a year ago when was it St Teresas hall Clarendon St little chits its over a year ago when was it St Teresas hall Clarendon St little chits
of missies they have now singing Kathleen Kearney and her like on account of missies they have now singing Kathleen Kearney and her like on account
of father being in the army and my singing the absentminded beggar and of father being in the army and my singing the absentminded beggar and
wearing a brooch for Lord Roberts when I had the map of it all and Poldy wearing a brooch for Lord Roberts when I had the map of it all and Poldy
not Irish enough was it him managed it this time I wouldnt put it past not Irish enough was it him managed it this time I wouldnt put it past
him like he got me on to sing in the STABAT MATER by going around saying him like he got me on to sing in the STABAT MATER by going around saying
he was putting Lead Kindly Light to music I put him up to that till the he was putting Lead Kindly Light to music I put him up to that till the
jesuits found out he was a freemason thumping the piano lead Thou me on jesuits found out he was a freemason thumping the piano lead Thou me on
copied from some old opera yes and he was going about with some of them copied from some old opera yes and he was going about with some of them
Sinner Fein lately or whatever they call themselves talking his usual Sinner Fein lately or whatever they call themselves talking his usual
trash and nonsense he says that little man he showed me without the neck trash and nonsense he says that little man he showed me without the neck
is very intelligent the coming man Griffiths is he well he doesnt look it is very intelligent the coming man Griffiths is he well he doesnt look it
thats all I can say still it must have been him he knew there was a thats all I can say still it must have been him he knew there was a
boycott I hate the mention of their politics after the war that Pretoria boycott I hate the mention of their politics after the war that Pretoria
and Ladysmith and Bloemfontein where Gardner lieut Stanley G 8th Bn 2nd and Ladysmith and Bloemfontein where Gardner lieut Stanley G 8th Bn 2nd
East Lancs Rgt of enteric fever he was a lovely fellow in khaki and just East Lancs Rgt of enteric fever he was a lovely fellow in khaki and just
the right height over me Im sure he was brave too he said I was lovely the right height over me Im sure he was brave too he said I was lovely
the evening we kissed goodbye at the canal lock my Irish beauty he was the evening we kissed goodbye at the canal lock my Irish beauty he was
pale with excitement about going away or wed be seen from the road he pale with excitement about going away or wed be seen from the road he
couldnt stand properly and I so hot as I never felt they could have made couldnt stand properly and I so hot as I never felt they could have made
their peace in the beginning or old oom Paul and the rest of the other their peace in the beginning or old oom Paul and the rest of the other
old Krugers go and fight it out between them instead of dragging on for old Krugers go and fight it out between them instead of dragging on for
years killing any finelooking men there were with their fever if he was years killing any finelooking men there were with their fever if he was
even decently shot it wouldnt have been so bad I love to see a regiment even decently shot it wouldnt have been so bad I love to see a regiment
pass in review the first time I saw the Spanish cavalry at La Roque it pass in review the first time I saw the Spanish cavalry at La Roque it
was lovely after looking across the bay from Algeciras all the lights of was lovely after looking across the bay from Algeciras all the lights of
the rock like fireflies or those sham battles on the 15 acres the Black the rock like fireflies or those sham battles on the 15 acres the Black
Watch with their kilts in time at the march past the 10th hussars the Watch with their kilts in time at the march past the 10th hussars the
prince of Wales own or the lancers O the lancers theyre grand or the prince of Wales own or the lancers O the lancers theyre grand or the
Dublins that won Tugela his father made his money over selling the horses Dublins that won Tugela his father made his money over selling the horses
for the cavalry well he could buy me a nice present up in Belfast after for the cavalry well he could buy me a nice present up in Belfast after
what I gave him theyve lovely linen up there or one of those nice kimono what I gave him theyve lovely linen up there or one of those nice kimono
things I must buy a mothball like I had before to keep in the drawer with things I must buy a mothball like I had before to keep in the drawer with
them it would be exciting going round with him shopping buying those them it would be exciting going round with him shopping buying those
things in a new city better leave this ring behind want to keep turning things in a new city better leave this ring behind want to keep turning
and turning to get it over the knuckle there or they might bell it round and turning to get it over the knuckle there or they might bell it round
the town in their papers or tell the police on me but theyd think were the town in their papers or tell the police on me but theyd think were
married O let them all go and smother themselves for the fat lot I care married O let them all go and smother themselves for the fat lot I care
he has plenty of money and hes not a marrying man so somebody better get he has plenty of money and hes not a marrying man so somebody better get
it out of him if I could find out whether he likes me I looked a bit it out of him if I could find out whether he likes me I looked a bit
washy of course when I looked close in the handglass powdering a mirror washy of course when I looked close in the handglass powdering a mirror
never gives you the expression besides scrooching down on me like that never gives you the expression besides scrooching down on me like that
all the time with his big hipbones hes heavy too with his hairy chest for all the time with his big hipbones hes heavy too with his hairy chest for
this heat always having to lie down for them better for him put it into this heat always having to lie down for them better for him put it into
me from behind the way Mrs Mastiansky told me her husband made her like me from behind the way Mrs Mastiansky told me her husband made her like
the dogs do it and stick out her tongue as far as ever she could and he the dogs do it and stick out her tongue as far as ever she could and he
so quiet and mild with his tingating cither can you ever be up to men the so quiet and mild with his tingating cither can you ever be up to men the
way it takes them lovely stuff in that blue suit he had on and stylish way it takes them lovely stuff in that blue suit he had on and stylish
tie and socks with the skyblue silk things on them hes certainly well off tie and socks with the skyblue silk things on them hes certainly well off
I know by the cut his clothes have and his heavy watch but he was like a I know by the cut his clothes have and his heavy watch but he was like a
perfect devil for a few minutes after he came back with the stoppress perfect devil for a few minutes after he came back with the stoppress
tearing up the tickets and swearing blazes because he lost 20 quid he tearing up the tickets and swearing blazes because he lost 20 quid he
said he lost over that outsider that won and half he put on for me on said he lost over that outsider that won and half he put on for me on
account of Lenehans tip cursing him to the lowest pits that sponger he account of Lenehans tip cursing him to the lowest pits that sponger he
was making free with me after the Glencree dinner coming back that long was making free with me after the Glencree dinner coming back that long
joult over the featherbed mountain after the lord Mayor looking at me joult over the featherbed mountain after the lord Mayor looking at me
with his dirty eyes Val Dillon that big heathen I first noticed him at with his dirty eyes Val Dillon that big heathen I first noticed him at
dessert when I was cracking the nuts with my teeth I wished I could have dessert when I was cracking the nuts with my teeth I wished I could have
picked every morsel of that chicken out of my fingers it was so tasty and picked every morsel of that chicken out of my fingers it was so tasty and
browned and as tender as anything only for I didnt want to eat everything browned and as tender as anything only for I didnt want to eat everything
on my plate those forks and fishslicers were hallmarked silver too I wish on my plate those forks and fishslicers were hallmarked silver too I wish
I had some I could easily have slipped a couple into my muff when I was I had some I could easily have slipped a couple into my muff when I was
playing with them then always hanging out of them for money in a playing with them then always hanging out of them for money in a
restaurant for the bit you put down your throat we have to be thankful restaurant for the bit you put down your throat we have to be thankful
for our mangy cup of tea itself as a great compliment to be noticed the for our mangy cup of tea itself as a great compliment to be noticed the
way the world is divided in any case if its going to go on I want at way the world is divided in any case if its going to go on I want at
least two other good chemises for one thing and but I dont know what kind least two other good chemises for one thing and but I dont know what kind
of drawers he likes none at all I think didnt he say yes and half the of drawers he likes none at all I think didnt he say yes and half the
girls in Gibraltar never wore them either naked as God made them that girls in Gibraltar never wore them either naked as God made them that
Andalusian singing her Manola she didnt make much secret of what she Andalusian singing her Manola she didnt make much secret of what she
hadnt yes and the second pair of silkette stockings is laddered after one hadnt yes and the second pair of silkette stockings is laddered after one
days wear I could have brought them back to Lewers this morning and days wear I could have brought them back to Lewers this morning and
kicked up a row and made that one change them only not to upset myself kicked up a row and made that one change them only not to upset myself
and run the risk of walking into him and ruining the whole thing and one and run the risk of walking into him and ruining the whole thing and one
of those kidfitting corsets Id want advertised cheap in the Gentlewoman of those kidfitting corsets Id want advertised cheap in the Gentlewoman
with elastic gores on the hips he saved the one I have but thats no good with elastic gores on the hips he saved the one I have but thats no good
what did they say they give a delightful figure line 11/6 obviating that what did they say they give a delightful figure line 11/6 obviating that
unsightly broad appearance across the lower back to reduce flesh my belly unsightly broad appearance across the lower back to reduce flesh my belly
is a bit too big Ill have to knock off the stout at dinner or am I is a bit too big Ill have to knock off the stout at dinner or am I
getting too fond of it the last they sent from ORourkes was as flat as a getting too fond of it the last they sent from ORourkes was as flat as a
pancake he makes his money easy Larry they call him the old mangy parcel pancake he makes his money easy Larry they call him the old mangy parcel
he sent at Xmas a cottage cake and a bottle of hogwash he tried to palm he sent at Xmas a cottage cake and a bottle of hogwash he tried to palm
off as claret that he couldnt get anyone to drink God spare his spit for off as claret that he couldnt get anyone to drink God spare his spit for
fear hed die of the drouth or I must do a few breathing exercises I fear hed die of the drouth or I must do a few breathing exercises I
wonder is that antifat any good might overdo it the thin ones are not so wonder is that antifat any good might overdo it the thin ones are not so
much the fashion now garters that much I have the violet pair I wore much the fashion now garters that much I have the violet pair I wore
today thats all he bought me out of the cheque he got on the first O no today thats all he bought me out of the cheque he got on the first O no
there was the face lotion I finished the last of yesterday that made my there was the face lotion I finished the last of yesterday that made my
skin like new I told him over and over again get that made up in the same skin like new I told him over and over again get that made up in the same
place and dont forget it God only knows whether he did after all I said place and dont forget it God only knows whether he did after all I said
to him Ill know by the bottle anyway if not I suppose Ill only have to to him Ill know by the bottle anyway if not I suppose Ill only have to
wash in my piss like beeftea or chickensoup with some of that opoponax wash in my piss like beeftea or chickensoup with some of that opoponax
and violet I thought it was beginning to look coarse or old a bit the and violet I thought it was beginning to look coarse or old a bit the
skin underneath is much finer where it peeled off there on my finger skin underneath is much finer where it peeled off there on my finger
after the burn its a pity it isnt all like that and the four paltry after the burn its a pity it isnt all like that and the four paltry
handkerchiefs about 6/- in all sure you cant get on in this world without handkerchiefs about 6/- in all sure you cant get on in this world without
style all going in food and rent when I get it Ill lash it around I tell style all going in food and rent when I get it Ill lash it around I tell
you in fine style I always want to throw a handful of tea into the pot you in fine style I always want to throw a handful of tea into the pot
measuring and mincing if I buy a pair of old brogues itself do you like measuring and mincing if I buy a pair of old brogues itself do you like
those new shoes yes how much were they Ive no clothes at all the brown those new shoes yes how much were they Ive no clothes at all the brown
costume and the skirt and jacket and the one at the cleaners 3 whats that costume and the skirt and jacket and the one at the cleaners 3 whats that
for any woman cutting up this old hat and patching up the other the men for any woman cutting up this old hat and patching up the other the men
wont look at you and women try to walk on you because they know youve no wont look at you and women try to walk on you because they know youve no
man then with all the things getting dearer every day for the 4 years man then with all the things getting dearer every day for the 4 years
more I have of life up to 35 no Im what am I at all Ill be 33 in more I have of life up to 35 no Im what am I at all Ill be 33 in
September will I what O well look at that Mrs Galbraith shes much older September will I what O well look at that Mrs Galbraith shes much older
than me I saw her when I was out last week her beautys on the wane she than me I saw her when I was out last week her beautys on the wane she
was a lovely woman magnificent head of hair on her down to her waist was a lovely woman magnificent head of hair on her down to her waist
tossing it back like that like Kitty OShea in Grantham street 1st thing I tossing it back like that like Kitty OShea in Grantham street 1st thing I
did every morning to look across see her combing it as if she loved it did every morning to look across see her combing it as if she loved it
and was full of it pity I only got to know her the day before we left and and was full of it pity I only got to know her the day before we left and
that Mrs Langtry the jersey lily the prince of Wales was in love with I that Mrs Langtry the jersey lily the prince of Wales was in love with I
suppose hes like the first man going the roads only for the name of a suppose hes like the first man going the roads only for the name of a
king theyre all made the one way only a black mans Id like to try a king theyre all made the one way only a black mans Id like to try a
beauty up to what was she 45 there was some funny story about the jealous beauty up to what was she 45 there was some funny story about the jealous
old husband what was it at all and an oyster knife he went no he made her old husband what was it at all and an oyster knife he went no he made her
wear a kind of a tin thing round her and the prince of Wales yes he had wear a kind of a tin thing round her and the prince of Wales yes he had
the oyster knife cant be true a thing like that like some of those books the oyster knife cant be true a thing like that like some of those books
he brings me the works of Master Francois Somebody supposed to be a he brings me the works of Master Francois Somebody supposed to be a
priest about a child born out of her ear because her bumgut fell out a priest about a child born out of her ear because her bumgut fell out a
nice word for any priest to write and her a--e as if any fool wouldnt nice word for any priest to write and her a--e as if any fool wouldnt
know what that meant I hate that pretending of all things with that old know what that meant I hate that pretending of all things with that old
blackguards face on him anybody can see its not true and that Ruby and blackguards face on him anybody can see its not true and that Ruby and
Fair Tyrants he brought me that twice I remember when I came to page 50 Fair Tyrants he brought me that twice I remember when I came to page 50
the part about where she hangs him up out of a hook with a cord the part about where she hangs him up out of a hook with a cord
flagellate sure theres nothing for a woman in that all invention made up flagellate sure theres nothing for a woman in that all invention made up
about he drinking the champagne out of her slipper after the ball was about he drinking the champagne out of her slipper after the ball was
over like the infant Jesus in the crib at Inchicore in the Blessed over like the infant Jesus in the crib at Inchicore in the Blessed
Virgins arms sure no woman could have a child that big taken out of her Virgins arms sure no woman could have a child that big taken out of her
and I thought first it came out of her side because how could she go to and I thought first it came out of her side because how could she go to
the chamber when she wanted to and she a rich lady of course she felt the chamber when she wanted to and she a rich lady of course she felt
honoured H R H he was in Gibraltar the year I was born I bet he found honoured H R H he was in Gibraltar the year I was born I bet he found
lilies there too where he planted the tree he planted more than that in lilies there too where he planted the tree he planted more than that in
his time he might have planted me too if hed come a bit sooner then I his time he might have planted me too if hed come a bit sooner then I
wouldnt be here as I am he ought to chuck that Freeman with the paltry wouldnt be here as I am he ought to chuck that Freeman with the paltry
few shillings he knocks out of it and go into an office or something few shillings he knocks out of it and go into an office or something
where hed get regular pay or a bank where they could put him up on a where hed get regular pay or a bank where they could put him up on a
throne to count the money all the day of course he prefers plottering throne to count the money all the day of course he prefers plottering
about the house so you cant stir with him any side whats your programme about the house so you cant stir with him any side whats your programme
today I wish hed even smoke a pipe like father to get the smell of a man today I wish hed even smoke a pipe like father to get the smell of a man
or pretending to be mooching about for advertisements when he could have or pretending to be mooching about for advertisements when he could have
been in Mr Cuffes still only for what he did then sending me to try and been in Mr Cuffes still only for what he did then sending me to try and
patch it up I could have got him promoted there to be the manager he gave patch it up I could have got him promoted there to be the manager he gave
me a great mirada once or twice first he was as stiff as the mischief me a great mirada once or twice first he was as stiff as the mischief
really and truly Mrs Bloom only I felt rotten simply with the old really and truly Mrs Bloom only I felt rotten simply with the old
rubbishy dress that I lost the leads out of the tails with no cut in it rubbishy dress that I lost the leads out of the tails with no cut in it
but theyre coming into fashion again I bought it simply to please him I but theyre coming into fashion again I bought it simply to please him I
knew it was no good by the finish pity I changed my mind of going to Todd knew it was no good by the finish pity I changed my mind of going to Todd
and Bums as I said and not Lees it was just like the shop itself rummage and Bums as I said and not Lees it was just like the shop itself rummage
sale a lot of trash I hate those rich shops get on your nerves nothing sale a lot of trash I hate those rich shops get on your nerves nothing
kills me altogether only he thinks he knows a great lot about a womans kills me altogether only he thinks he knows a great lot about a womans
dress and cooking mathering everything he can scour off the shelves into dress and cooking mathering everything he can scour off the shelves into
it if I went by his advices every blessed hat I put on does that suit me it if I went by his advices every blessed hat I put on does that suit me
yes take that thats alright the one like a weddingcake standing up miles yes take that thats alright the one like a weddingcake standing up miles
off my head he said suited me or the dishcover one coming down on my off my head he said suited me or the dishcover one coming down on my
backside on pins and needles about the shopgirl in that place in Grafton backside on pins and needles about the shopgirl in that place in Grafton
street I had the misfortune to bring him into and she as insolent as ever street I had the misfortune to bring him into and she as insolent as ever
she could be with her smirk saying Im afraid were giving you too much she could be with her smirk saying Im afraid were giving you too much
trouble what shes there for but I stared it out of her yes he was awfully trouble what shes there for but I stared it out of her yes he was awfully
stiff and no wonder but he changed the second time he looked Poldy stiff and no wonder but he changed the second time he looked Poldy
pigheaded as usual like the soup but I could see him looking very hard at pigheaded as usual like the soup but I could see him looking very hard at
my chest when he stood up to open the door for me it was nice of him to my chest when he stood up to open the door for me it was nice of him to
show me out in any case Im extremely sorry Mrs Bloom believe me without show me out in any case Im extremely sorry Mrs Bloom believe me without
making it too marked the first time after him being insulted and me being making it too marked the first time after him being insulted and me being
supposed to be his wife I just half smiled I know my chest was out that supposed to be his wife I just half smiled I know my chest was out that
way at the door when he said Im extremely sorry and Im sure you were way at the door when he said Im extremely sorry and Im sure you were
yes I think he made them a bit firmer sucking them like that so long he yes I think he made them a bit firmer sucking them like that so long he
made me thirsty titties he calls them I had to laugh yes this one anyhow made me thirsty titties he calls them I had to laugh yes this one anyhow
stiff the nipple gets for the least thing Ill get him to keep that up and stiff the nipple gets for the least thing Ill get him to keep that up and
Ill take those eggs beaten up with marsala fatten them out for him what Ill take those eggs beaten up with marsala fatten them out for him what
are all those veins and things curious the way its made 2 the same in are all those veins and things curious the way its made 2 the same in
case of twins theyre supposed to represent beauty placed up there like case of twins theyre supposed to represent beauty placed up there like
those statues in the museum one of them pretending to hide it with her those statues in the museum one of them pretending to hide it with her
hand are they so beautiful of course compared with what a man looks like hand are they so beautiful of course compared with what a man looks like
with his two bags full and his other thing hanging down out of him or with his two bags full and his other thing hanging down out of him or
sticking up at you like a hatrack no wonder they hide it with a sticking up at you like a hatrack no wonder they hide it with a
cabbageleaf that disgusting Cameron highlander behind the meat market or cabbageleaf that disgusting Cameron highlander behind the meat market or
that other wretch with the red head behind the tree where the statue of that other wretch with the red head behind the tree where the statue of
the fish used to be when I was passing pretending he was pissing standing the fish used to be when I was passing pretending he was pissing standing
out for me to see it with his babyclothes up to one side the Queens own out for me to see it with his babyclothes up to one side the Queens own
they were a nice lot its well the Surreys relieved them theyre always they were a nice lot its well the Surreys relieved them theyre always
trying to show it to you every time nearly I passed outside the mens trying to show it to you every time nearly I passed outside the mens
greenhouse near the Harcourt street station just to try some fellow or greenhouse near the Harcourt street station just to try some fellow or
other trying to catch my eye as if it was I of the 7 wonders of the world other trying to catch my eye as if it was I of the 7 wonders of the world
O and the stink of those rotten places the night coming home with Poldy O and the stink of those rotten places the night coming home with Poldy
after the Comerfords party oranges and lemonade to make you feel nice and after the Comerfords party oranges and lemonade to make you feel nice and
watery I went into r of them it was so biting cold I couldnt keep it when watery I went into r of them it was so biting cold I couldnt keep it when
was that 93 the canal was frozen yes it was a few months after a pity a was that 93 the canal was frozen yes it was a few months after a pity a
couple of the Camerons werent there to see me squatting in the mens place couple of the Camerons werent there to see me squatting in the mens place
meadero I tried to draw a picture of it before I tore it up like a meadero I tried to draw a picture of it before I tore it up like a
sausage or something I wonder theyre not afraid going about of getting a sausage or something I wonder theyre not afraid going about of getting a
kick or a bang of something there the woman is beauty of course thats kick or a bang of something there the woman is beauty of course thats
admitted when he said I could pose for a picture naked to some rich admitted when he said I could pose for a picture naked to some rich
fellow in Holles street when he lost the job in Helys and I was selling fellow in Holles street when he lost the job in Helys and I was selling
the clothes and strumming in the coffee palace would I be like that bath the clothes and strumming in the coffee palace would I be like that bath
of the nymph with my hair down yes only shes younger or Im a little like of the nymph with my hair down yes only shes younger or Im a little like
that dirty bitch in that Spanish photo he has nymphs used they go about that dirty bitch in that Spanish photo he has nymphs used they go about
like that I asked him about her and that word met something with hoses in like that I asked him about her and that word met something with hoses in
it and he came out with some jawbreakers about the incarnation he never it and he came out with some jawbreakers about the incarnation he never
can explain a thing simply the way a body can understand then he goes and can explain a thing simply the way a body can understand then he goes and
burns the bottom out of the pan all for his Kidney this one not so much burns the bottom out of the pan all for his Kidney this one not so much
theres the mark of his teeth still where he tried to bite the nipple I theres the mark of his teeth still where he tried to bite the nipple I
had to scream out arent they fearful trying to hurt you I had a great had to scream out arent they fearful trying to hurt you I had a great
breast of milk with Milly enough for two what was the reason of that he breast of milk with Milly enough for two what was the reason of that he
said I could have got a pound a week as a wet nurse all swelled out the said I could have got a pound a week as a wet nurse all swelled out the
morning that delicate looking student that stopped in no 28 with the morning that delicate looking student that stopped in no 28 with the
Citrons Penrose nearly caught me washing through the window only for I Citrons Penrose nearly caught me washing through the window only for I
snapped up the towel to my face that was his studenting hurt me they used snapped up the towel to my face that was his studenting hurt me they used
to weaning her till he got doctor Brady to give me the belladonna to weaning her till he got doctor Brady to give me the belladonna
prescription I had to get him to suck them they were so hard he said it prescription I had to get him to suck them they were so hard he said it
was sweeter and thicker than cows then he wanted to milk me into the tea was sweeter and thicker than cows then he wanted to milk me into the tea
well hes beyond everything I declare somebody ought to put him in the well hes beyond everything I declare somebody ought to put him in the
budget if I only could remember the I half of the things and write a book budget if I only could remember the I half of the things and write a book
out of it the works of Master Poldy yes and its so much smoother the skin out of it the works of Master Poldy yes and its so much smoother the skin
much an hour he was at them Im sure by the clock like some kind of a big much an hour he was at them Im sure by the clock like some kind of a big
infant I had at me they want everything in their mouth all the pleasure infant I had at me they want everything in their mouth all the pleasure
those men get out of a woman I can feel his mouth O Lord I must stretch those men get out of a woman I can feel his mouth O Lord I must stretch
myself I wished he was here or somebody to let myself go with and come myself I wished he was here or somebody to let myself go with and come
again like that I feel all fire inside me or if I could dream it when he again like that I feel all fire inside me or if I could dream it when he
made me spend the 2nd time tickling me behind with his finger I was made me spend the 2nd time tickling me behind with his finger I was
coming for about 5 minutes with my legs round him I had to hug him after coming for about 5 minutes with my legs round him I had to hug him after
O Lord I wanted to shout out all sorts of things fuck or shit or anything O Lord I wanted to shout out all sorts of things fuck or shit or anything
at all only not to look ugly or those lines from the strain who knows the at all only not to look ugly or those lines from the strain who knows the
way hed take it you want to feel your way with a man theyre not all like way hed take it you want to feel your way with a man theyre not all like
him thank God some of them want you to be so nice about it I noticed the him thank God some of them want you to be so nice about it I noticed the
contrast he does it and doesnt talk I gave my eyes that look with my hair contrast he does it and doesnt talk I gave my eyes that look with my hair
a bit loose from the tumbling and my tongue between my lips up to him the a bit loose from the tumbling and my tongue between my lips up to him the
savage brute Thursday Friday one Saturday two Sunday three O Lord I cant savage brute Thursday Friday one Saturday two Sunday three O Lord I cant
wait till Monday wait till Monday
frseeeeeeeefronnnng train somewhere whistling the strength those engines frseeeeeeeefronnnng train somewhere whistling the strength those engines
have in them like big giants and the water rolling all over and out of have in them like big giants and the water rolling all over and out of
them all sides like the end of Loves old sweeeetsonnnng the poor men that them all sides like the end of Loves old sweeeetsonnnng the poor men that
have to be out all the night from their wives and families in those have to be out all the night from their wives and families in those
roasting engines stifling it was today Im glad I burned the half of those roasting engines stifling it was today Im glad I burned the half of those
old Freemans and Photo Bits leaving things like that lying about hes old Freemans and Photo Bits leaving things like that lying about hes
getting very careless and threw the rest of them up in the W C Ill get getting very careless and threw the rest of them up in the W C Ill get
him to cut them tomorrow for me instead of having them there for the next him to cut them tomorrow for me instead of having them there for the next
year to get a few pence for them have him asking wheres last Januarys year to get a few pence for them have him asking wheres last Januarys
paper and all those old overcoats I bundled out of the hall making the paper and all those old overcoats I bundled out of the hall making the
place hotter than it is that rain was lovely and refreshing just after my place hotter than it is that rain was lovely and refreshing just after my
beauty sleep I thought it was going to get like Gibraltar my goodness the beauty sleep I thought it was going to get like Gibraltar my goodness the
heat there before the levanter came on black as night and the glare of heat there before the levanter came on black as night and the glare of
the rock standing up in it like a big giant compared with their 3 Rock the rock standing up in it like a big giant compared with their 3 Rock
mountain they think is so great with the red sentries here and there the mountain they think is so great with the red sentries here and there the
poplars and they all whitehot and the smell of the rainwater in those poplars and they all whitehot and the smell of the rainwater in those
tanks watching the sun all the time weltering down on you faded all that tanks watching the sun all the time weltering down on you faded all that
lovely frock fathers friend Mrs Stanhope sent me from the B Marche paris lovely frock fathers friend Mrs Stanhope sent me from the B Marche paris
what a shame my dearest Doggerina she wrote on it she was very nice whats what a shame my dearest Doggerina she wrote on it she was very nice whats
this her other name was just a p c to tell you I sent the little present this her other name was just a p c to tell you I sent the little present
have just had a jolly warm bath and feel a very clean dog now enjoyed it have just had a jolly warm bath and feel a very clean dog now enjoyed it
wogger she called him wogger wd give anything to be back in Gib and hear wogger she called him wogger wd give anything to be back in Gib and hear
you sing Waiting and in old Madrid Concone is the name of those exercises you sing Waiting and in old Madrid Concone is the name of those exercises
he bought me one of those new some word I couldnt make out shawls amusing he bought me one of those new some word I couldnt make out shawls amusing
things but tear for the least thing still there lovely I think dont you things but tear for the least thing still there lovely I think dont you
will always think of the lovely teas we had together scrumptious currant will always think of the lovely teas we had together scrumptious currant
scones and raspberry wafers I adore well now dearest Doggerina be sure scones and raspberry wafers I adore well now dearest Doggerina be sure
and write soon kind she left out regards to your father also captain and write soon kind she left out regards to your father also captain
Grove with love yrs affly Hester x x x x x she didnt look a bit married Grove with love yrs affly Hester x x x x x she didnt look a bit married
just like a girl he was years older than her wogger he was awfully fond just like a girl he was years older than her wogger he was awfully fond
of me when he held down the wire with his foot for me to step over at the of me when he held down the wire with his foot for me to step over at the
bullfight at La Linea when that matador Gomez was given the bulls ear bullfight at La Linea when that matador Gomez was given the bulls ear
these clothes we have to wear whoever invented them expecting you to walk these clothes we have to wear whoever invented them expecting you to walk
up Killiney hill then for example at that picnic all staysed up you cant up Killiney hill then for example at that picnic all staysed up you cant
do a blessed thing in them in a crowd run or jump out of the way thats do a blessed thing in them in a crowd run or jump out of the way thats
why I was afraid when that other ferocious old Bull began to charge the why I was afraid when that other ferocious old Bull began to charge the
banderilleros with the sashes and the 2 things in their hats and the banderilleros with the sashes and the 2 things in their hats and the
brutes of men shouting bravo toro sure the women were as bad in their brutes of men shouting bravo toro sure the women were as bad in their
nice white mantillas ripping all the whole insides out of those poor nice white mantillas ripping all the whole insides out of those poor
horses I never heard of such a thing in all my life yes he used to break horses I never heard of such a thing in all my life yes he used to break
his heart at me taking off the dog barking in bell lane poor brute and it his heart at me taking off the dog barking in bell lane poor brute and it
sick what became of them ever I suppose theyre dead long ago the 2 of sick what became of them ever I suppose theyre dead long ago the 2 of
them its like all through a mist makes you feel so old I made the scones them its like all through a mist makes you feel so old I made the scones
of course I had everything all to myself then a girl Hester we used to of course I had everything all to myself then a girl Hester we used to
compare our hair mine was thicker than hers she showed me how to settle compare our hair mine was thicker than hers she showed me how to settle
it at the back when I put it up and whats this else how to make a knot on it at the back when I put it up and whats this else how to make a knot on
a thread with the one hand we were like cousins what age was I then the a thread with the one hand we were like cousins what age was I then the
night of the storm I slept in her bed she had her arms round me then we night of the storm I slept in her bed she had her arms round me then we
were fighting in the morning with the pillow what fun he was watching me were fighting in the morning with the pillow what fun he was watching me
whenever he got an opportunity at the band on the Alameda esplanade when whenever he got an opportunity at the band on the Alameda esplanade when
I was with father and captain Grove I looked up at the church first and I was with father and captain Grove I looked up at the church first and
then at the windows then down and our eyes met I felt something go then at the windows then down and our eyes met I felt something go
through me like all needles my eyes were dancing I remember after when I through me like all needles my eyes were dancing I remember after when I
looked at myself in the glass hardly recognised myself the change he was looked at myself in the glass hardly recognised myself the change he was
attractive to a girl in spite of his being a little bald intelligent attractive to a girl in spite of his being a little bald intelligent
looking disappointed and gay at the same time he was like Thomas in the looking disappointed and gay at the same time he was like Thomas in the
shadow of Ashlydyat I had a splendid skin from the sun and the excitement shadow of Ashlydyat I had a splendid skin from the sun and the excitement
like a rose I didnt get a wink of sleep it wouldnt have been nice on like a rose I didnt get a wink of sleep it wouldnt have been nice on
account of her but I could have stopped it in time she gave me the account of her but I could have stopped it in time she gave me the
Moonstone to read that was the first I read of Wilkie Collins East Lynne Moonstone to read that was the first I read of Wilkie Collins East Lynne
I read and the shadow of Ashlydyat Mrs Henry Wood Henry Dunbar by that I read and the shadow of Ashlydyat Mrs Henry Wood Henry Dunbar by that
other woman I lent him afterwards with Mulveys photo in it so as he see I other woman I lent him afterwards with Mulveys photo in it so as he see I
wasnt without and Lord Lytton Eugene Aram Molly bawn she gave me by Mrs wasnt without and Lord Lytton Eugene Aram Molly bawn she gave me by Mrs
Hungerford on account of the name I dont like books with a Molly in them Hungerford on account of the name I dont like books with a Molly in them
like that one he brought me about the one from Flanders a whore always like that one he brought me about the one from Flanders a whore always
shoplifting anything she could cloth and stuff and yards of it O this shoplifting anything she could cloth and stuff and yards of it O this
blanket is too heavy on me thats better I havent even one decent blanket is too heavy on me thats better I havent even one decent
nightdress this thing gets all rolled under me besides him and his nightdress this thing gets all rolled under me besides him and his
fooling thats better I used to be weltering then in the heat my shift fooling thats better I used to be weltering then in the heat my shift
drenched with the sweat stuck in the cheeks of my bottom on the chair drenched with the sweat stuck in the cheeks of my bottom on the chair
when I stood up they were so fattish and firm when I got up on the sofa when I stood up they were so fattish and firm when I got up on the sofa
cushions to see with my clothes up and the bugs tons of them at night and cushions to see with my clothes up and the bugs tons of them at night and
the mosquito nets I couldnt read a line Lord how long ago it seems the mosquito nets I couldnt read a line Lord how long ago it seems
centuries of course they never came back and she didnt put her address centuries of course they never came back and she didnt put her address
right on it either she may have noticed her wogger people were always right on it either she may have noticed her wogger people were always
going away and we never I remember that day with the waves and the boats going away and we never I remember that day with the waves and the boats
with their high heads rocking and the smell of ship those Officers with their high heads rocking and the smell of ship those Officers
uniforms on shore leave made me seasick he didnt say anything he was very uniforms on shore leave made me seasick he didnt say anything he was very
serious I had the high buttoned boots on and my skirt was blowing she serious I had the high buttoned boots on and my skirt was blowing she
kissed me six or seven times didnt I cry yes I believe I did or near it kissed me six or seven times didnt I cry yes I believe I did or near it
my lips were taittering when I said goodbye she had a Gorgeous wrap of my lips were taittering when I said goodbye she had a Gorgeous wrap of
some special kind of blue colour on her for the voyage made very some special kind of blue colour on her for the voyage made very
peculiarly to one side like and it was extremely pretty it got as dull as peculiarly to one side like and it was extremely pretty it got as dull as
the devil after they went I was almost planning to run away mad out of it the devil after they went I was almost planning to run away mad out of it
somewhere were never easy where we are father or aunt or marriage waiting somewhere were never easy where we are father or aunt or marriage waiting
always waiting to guiiiide him toooo me waiting nor speeeed his flying always waiting to guiiiide him toooo me waiting nor speeeed his flying
feet their damn guns bursting and booming all over the shop especially feet their damn guns bursting and booming all over the shop especially
the Queens birthday and throwing everything down in all directions if you the Queens birthday and throwing everything down in all directions if you
didnt open the windows when general Ulysses Grant whoever he was or did didnt open the windows when general Ulysses Grant whoever he was or did
supposed to be some great fellow landed off the ship and old Sprague the supposed to be some great fellow landed off the ship and old Sprague the
consul that was there from before the flood dressed up poor man and he in consul that was there from before the flood dressed up poor man and he in
mourning for the son then the same old bugles for reveille in the morning mourning for the son then the same old bugles for reveille in the morning
and drums rolling and the unfortunate poor devils of soldiers walking and drums rolling and the unfortunate poor devils of soldiers walking
about with messtins smelling the place more than the old longbearded jews about with messtins smelling the place more than the old longbearded jews
in their jellibees and levites assembly and sound clear and gunfire for in their jellibees and levites assembly and sound clear and gunfire for
the men to cross the lines and the warden marching with his keys to lock the men to cross the lines and the warden marching with his keys to lock
the gates and the bagpipes and only captain Groves and father talking the gates and the bagpipes and only captain Groves and father talking
about Rorkes drift and Plevna and sir Garnet Wolseley and Gordon at about Rorkes drift and Plevna and sir Garnet Wolseley and Gordon at
Khartoum lighting their pipes for them everytime they went out drunken Khartoum lighting their pipes for them everytime they went out drunken
old devil with his grog on the windowsill catch him leaving any of it old devil with his grog on the windowsill catch him leaving any of it
picking his nose trying to think of some other dirty story to tell up in picking his nose trying to think of some other dirty story to tell up in
a corner but he never forgot himself when I was there sending me out of a corner but he never forgot himself when I was there sending me out of
the room on some blind excuse paying his compliments the Bushmills whisky the room on some blind excuse paying his compliments the Bushmills whisky
talking of course but hed do the same to the next woman that came along I talking of course but hed do the same to the next woman that came along I
suppose he died of galloping drink ages ago the days like years not a suppose he died of galloping drink ages ago the days like years not a
letter from a living soul except the odd few I posted to myself with bits letter from a living soul except the odd few I posted to myself with bits
of paper in them so bored sometimes I could fight with my nails listening of paper in them so bored sometimes I could fight with my nails listening
to that old Arab with the one eye and his heass of an instrument singing to that old Arab with the one eye and his heass of an instrument singing
his heah heah aheah all my compriments on your hotchapotch of your heass his heah heah aheah all my compriments on your hotchapotch of your heass
as bad as now with the hands hanging off me looking out of the window if as bad as now with the hands hanging off me looking out of the window if
there was a nice fellow even in the opposite house that medical in Holles there was a nice fellow even in the opposite house that medical in Holles
street the nurse was after when I put on my gloves and hat at the window street the nurse was after when I put on my gloves and hat at the window
to show I was going out not a notion what I meant arent they thick never to show I was going out not a notion what I meant arent they thick never
understand what you say even youd want to print it up on a big poster for understand what you say even youd want to print it up on a big poster for
them not even if you shake hands twice with the left he didnt recognise them not even if you shake hands twice with the left he didnt recognise
me either when I half frowned at him outside Westland row chapel where me either when I half frowned at him outside Westland row chapel where
does their great intelligence come in Id like to know grey matter they does their great intelligence come in Id like to know grey matter they
have it all in their tail if you ask me those country gougers up in the have it all in their tail if you ask me those country gougers up in the
City Arms intelligence they had a damn sight less than the bulls and cows City Arms intelligence they had a damn sight less than the bulls and cows
they were selling the meat and the coalmans bell that noisy bugger trying they were selling the meat and the coalmans bell that noisy bugger trying
to swindle me with the wrong bill he took out of his hat what a pair of to swindle me with the wrong bill he took out of his hat what a pair of
paws and pots and pans and kettles to mend any broken bottles for a poor paws and pots and pans and kettles to mend any broken bottles for a poor
man today and no visitors or post ever except his cheques or some man today and no visitors or post ever except his cheques or some
advertisement like that wonderworker they sent him addressed dear Madam advertisement like that wonderworker they sent him addressed dear Madam
only his letter and the card from Milly this morning see she wrote a only his letter and the card from Milly this morning see she wrote a
letter to him who did I get the last letter from O Mrs Dwenn now what letter to him who did I get the last letter from O Mrs Dwenn now what
possessed her to write from Canada after so many years to know the recipe possessed her to write from Canada after so many years to know the recipe
I had for pisto madrileno Floey Dillon since she wrote to say she was I had for pisto madrileno Floey Dillon since she wrote to say she was
married to a very rich architect if Im to believe all I hear with a villa married to a very rich architect if Im to believe all I hear with a villa
and eight rooms her father was an awfully nice man he was near seventy and eight rooms her father was an awfully nice man he was near seventy
always goodhumoured well now Miss Tweedy or Miss Gillespie theres the always goodhumoured well now Miss Tweedy or Miss Gillespie theres the
piannyer that was a solid silver coffee service he had too on the piannyer that was a solid silver coffee service he had too on the
mahogany sideboard then dying so far away I hate people that have always mahogany sideboard then dying so far away I hate people that have always
their poor story to tell everybody has their own troubles that poor Nancy their poor story to tell everybody has their own troubles that poor Nancy
Blake died a month ago of acute neumonia well I didnt know her so well as Blake died a month ago of acute neumonia well I didnt know her so well as
all that she was Floeys friend more than mine poor Nancy its a bother all that she was Floeys friend more than mine poor Nancy its a bother
having to answer he always tells me the wrong things and no stops to say having to answer he always tells me the wrong things and no stops to say
like making a speech your sad bereavement symphathy I always make that like making a speech your sad bereavement symphathy I always make that
mistake and newphew with 2 double yous in I hope hell write me a longer mistake and newphew with 2 double yous in I hope hell write me a longer
letter the next time if its a thing he really likes me O thanks be to the letter the next time if its a thing he really likes me O thanks be to the
great God I got somebody to give me what I badly wanted to put some heart great God I got somebody to give me what I badly wanted to put some heart
up into me youve no chances at all in this place like you used long ago I up into me youve no chances at all in this place like you used long ago I
wish somebody would write me a loveletter his wasnt much and I told him wish somebody would write me a loveletter his wasnt much and I told him
he could write what he liked yours ever Hugh Boylan in old Madrid stuff he could write what he liked yours ever Hugh Boylan in old Madrid stuff
silly women believe love is sighing I am dying still if he wrote it I silly women believe love is sighing I am dying still if he wrote it I
suppose thered be some truth in it true or no it fills up your whole day suppose thered be some truth in it true or no it fills up your whole day
and life always something to think about every moment and see it all and life always something to think about every moment and see it all
round you like a new world I could write the answer in bed to let him round you like a new world I could write the answer in bed to let him
imagine me short just a few words not those long crossed letters Atty imagine me short just a few words not those long crossed letters Atty
Dillon used to write to the fellow that was something in the four courts Dillon used to write to the fellow that was something in the four courts
that jilted her after out of the ladies letterwriter when I told her to that jilted her after out of the ladies letterwriter when I told her to
say a few simple words he could twist how he liked not acting with say a few simple words he could twist how he liked not acting with
precipat precip itancy with equal candour the greatest earthly happiness precipat precip itancy with equal candour the greatest earthly happiness
answer to a gentlemans proposal affirmatively my goodness theres nothing answer to a gentlemans proposal affirmatively my goodness theres nothing
else its all very fine for them but as for being a woman as soon as youre else its all very fine for them but as for being a woman as soon as youre
old they might as well throw you out in the bottom of the ashpit. old they might as well throw you out in the bottom of the ashpit.
Mulveys was the first when I was in bed that morning and Mrs Rubio Mulveys was the first when I was in bed that morning and Mrs Rubio
brought it in with the coffee she stood there standing when I asked her brought it in with the coffee she stood there standing when I asked her
to hand me and I pointing at them I couldnt think of the word a hairpin to hand me and I pointing at them I couldnt think of the word a hairpin
to open it with ah horquilla disobliging old thing and it staring her in to open it with ah horquilla disobliging old thing and it staring her in
the face with her switch of false hair on her and vain about her the face with her switch of false hair on her and vain about her
appearance ugly as she was near 80 or a 100 her face a mass of wrinkles appearance ugly as she was near 80 or a 100 her face a mass of wrinkles
with all her religion domineering because she never could get over the with all her religion domineering because she never could get over the
Atlantic fleet coming in half the ships of the world and the Union Jack Atlantic fleet coming in half the ships of the world and the Union Jack
flying with all her carabineros because 4 drunken English sailors took flying with all her carabineros because 4 drunken English sailors took
all the rock from them and because I didnt run into mass often enough in all the rock from them and because I didnt run into mass often enough in
Santa Maria to please her with her shawl up on her except when there was Santa Maria to please her with her shawl up on her except when there was
a marriage on with all her miracles of the saints and her black blessed a marriage on with all her miracles of the saints and her black blessed
virgin with the silver dress and the sun dancing 3 times on Easter Sunday virgin with the silver dress and the sun dancing 3 times on Easter Sunday
morning and when the priest was going by with the bell bringing the morning and when the priest was going by with the bell bringing the
vatican to the dying blessing herself for his Majestad an admirer he vatican to the dying blessing herself for his Majestad an admirer he
signed it I near jumped out of my skin I wanted to pick him up when I saw signed it I near jumped out of my skin I wanted to pick him up when I saw
him following me along the Calle Real in the shop window then he tipped him following me along the Calle Real in the shop window then he tipped
me just in passing but I never thought hed write making an appointment I me just in passing but I never thought hed write making an appointment I
had it inside my petticoat bodice all day reading it up in every hole and had it inside my petticoat bodice all day reading it up in every hole and
corner while father was up at the drill instructing to find out by the corner while father was up at the drill instructing to find out by the
handwriting or the language of stamps singing I remember shall I wear a handwriting or the language of stamps singing I remember shall I wear a
white rose and I wanted to put on the old stupid clock to near the time white rose and I wanted to put on the old stupid clock to near the time
he was the first man kissed me under the Moorish wall my sweetheart when he was the first man kissed me under the Moorish wall my sweetheart when
a boy it never entered my head what kissing meant till he put his tongue a boy it never entered my head what kissing meant till he put his tongue
in my mouth his mouth was sweetlike young I put my knee up to him a few in my mouth his mouth was sweetlike young I put my knee up to him a few
times to learn the way what did I tell him I was engaged for for fun to times to learn the way what did I tell him I was engaged for for fun to
the son of a Spanish nobleman named Don Miguel de la Flora and he the son of a Spanish nobleman named Don Miguel de la Flora and he
believed me that I was to be married to him in 3 years time theres many a believed me that I was to be married to him in 3 years time theres many a
true word spoken in jest there is a flower that bloometh a few things I true word spoken in jest there is a flower that bloometh a few things I
told him true about myself just for him to be imagining the Spanish girls told him true about myself just for him to be imagining the Spanish girls
he didnt like I suppose one of them wouldnt have him I got him excited he he didnt like I suppose one of them wouldnt have him I got him excited he
crushed all the flowers on my bosom he brought me he couldnt count the crushed all the flowers on my bosom he brought me he couldnt count the
pesetas and the perragordas till I taught him Cappoquin he came from he pesetas and the perragordas till I taught him Cappoquin he came from he
said on the black water but it was too short then the day before he left said on the black water but it was too short then the day before he left
May yes it was May when the infant king of Spain was born Im always like May yes it was May when the infant king of Spain was born Im always like
that in the spring Id like a new fellow every year up on the tiptop under that in the spring Id like a new fellow every year up on the tiptop under
the rockgun near OHaras tower I told him it was struck by lightning and the rockgun near OHaras tower I told him it was struck by lightning and
all about the old Barbary apes they sent to Clapham without a tail all about the old Barbary apes they sent to Clapham without a tail
careering all over the show on each others back Mrs Rubio said she was a careering all over the show on each others back Mrs Rubio said she was a
regular old rock scorpion robbing the chickens out of Inces farm and regular old rock scorpion robbing the chickens out of Inces farm and
throw stones at you if you went anear he was looking at me I had that throw stones at you if you went anear he was looking at me I had that
white blouse on open in the front to encourage him as much as I could white blouse on open in the front to encourage him as much as I could
without too openly they were just beginning to be plump I said I was without too openly they were just beginning to be plump I said I was
tired we lay over the firtree cove a wild place I suppose it must be the tired we lay over the firtree cove a wild place I suppose it must be the
highest rock in existence the galleries and casemates and those frightful highest rock in existence the galleries and casemates and those frightful
rocks and Saint Michaels cave with the icicles or whatever they call them rocks and Saint Michaels cave with the icicles or whatever they call them
hanging down and ladders all the mud plotching my boots Im sure thats the hanging down and ladders all the mud plotching my boots Im sure thats the
way down the monkeys go under the sea to Africa when they die the ships way down the monkeys go under the sea to Africa when they die the ships
out far like chips that was the Malta boat passing yes the sea and the out far like chips that was the Malta boat passing yes the sea and the
sky you could do what you liked lie there for ever he caressed them sky you could do what you liked lie there for ever he caressed them
outside they love doing that its the roundness there I was leaning over outside they love doing that its the roundness there I was leaning over
him with my white ricestraw hat to take the newness out of it the left him with my white ricestraw hat to take the newness out of it the left
side of my face the best my blouse open for his last day transparent kind side of my face the best my blouse open for his last day transparent kind
of shirt he had I could see his chest pink he wanted to touch mine with of shirt he had I could see his chest pink he wanted to touch mine with
his for a moment but I wouldnt lee him he was awfully put out first for his for a moment but I wouldnt lee him he was awfully put out first for
fear you never know consumption or leave me with a child embarazada that fear you never know consumption or leave me with a child embarazada that
old servant Ines told me that one drop even if it got into you at all old servant Ines told me that one drop even if it got into you at all
after I tried with the Banana but I was afraid it might break and get after I tried with the Banana but I was afraid it might break and get
lost up in me somewhere because they once took something down out of a lost up in me somewhere because they once took something down out of a
woman that was up there for years covered with limesalts theyre all mad woman that was up there for years covered with limesalts theyre all mad
to get in there where they come out of youd think they could never go far to get in there where they come out of youd think they could never go far
enough up and then theyre done with you in a way till the next time yes enough up and then theyre done with you in a way till the next time yes
because theres a wonderful feeling there so tender all the time how did because theres a wonderful feeling there so tender all the time how did
we finish it off yes O yes I pulled him off into my handkerchief we finish it off yes O yes I pulled him off into my handkerchief
pretending not to be excited but I opened my legs I wouldnt let him touch pretending not to be excited but I opened my legs I wouldnt let him touch
me inside my petticoat because I had a skirt opening up the side I me inside my petticoat because I had a skirt opening up the side I
tormented the life out of him first tickling him I loved rousing that dog tormented the life out of him first tickling him I loved rousing that dog
in the hotel rrrsssstt awokwokawok his eyes shut and a bird flying below in the hotel rrrsssstt awokwokawok his eyes shut and a bird flying below
us he was shy all the same I liked him like that moaning I made him blush us he was shy all the same I liked him like that moaning I made him blush
a little when I got over him that way when I unbuttoned him and took his a little when I got over him that way when I unbuttoned him and took his
out and drew back the skin it had a kind of eye in it theyre all Buttons out and drew back the skin it had a kind of eye in it theyre all Buttons
men down the middle on the wrong side of them Molly darling he called me men down the middle on the wrong side of them Molly darling he called me
what was his name Jack Joe Harry Mulvey was it yes I think a lieutenant what was his name Jack Joe Harry Mulvey was it yes I think a lieutenant
he was rather fair he had a laughing kind of a voice so I went round to he was rather fair he had a laughing kind of a voice so I went round to
the whatyoucallit everything was whatyoucallit moustache had he he said the whatyoucallit everything was whatyoucallit moustache had he he said
hed come back Lord its just like yesterday to me and if I was married hed hed come back Lord its just like yesterday to me and if I was married hed
do it to me and I promised him yes faithfully Id let him block me now do it to me and I promised him yes faithfully Id let him block me now
flying perhaps hes dead or killed or a captain or admiral its nearly 20 flying perhaps hes dead or killed or a captain or admiral its nearly 20
years if I said firtree cove he would if he came up behind me and put his years if I said firtree cove he would if he came up behind me and put his
hands over my eyes to guess who I might recognise him hes young still hands over my eyes to guess who I might recognise him hes young still
about 40 perhaps hes married some girl on the black water and is quite about 40 perhaps hes married some girl on the black water and is quite
changed they all do they havent half the character a woman has she little changed they all do they havent half the character a woman has she little
knows what I did with her beloved husband before he ever dreamt of her in knows what I did with her beloved husband before he ever dreamt of her in
broad daylight too in the sight of the whole world you might say they broad daylight too in the sight of the whole world you might say they
in the least. Though unusual in the Dublin area he knew that it was not in the least. Though unusual in the Dublin area he knew that it was not
by any means unknown for desperadoes who had next to nothing to live on by any means unknown for desperadoes who had next to nothing to live on
to be abroad waylaying and generally terrorising peaceable pedestrians by to be abroad waylaying and generally terrorising peaceable pedestrians by
placing a pistol at their head in some secluded spot outside the city placing a pistol at their head in some secluded spot outside the city
proper, famished loiterers of the Thames embankment category they might proper, famished loiterers of the Thames embankment category they might
be hanging about there or simply marauders ready to decamp with whatever be hanging about there or simply marauders ready to decamp with whatever
boodle they could in one fell swoop at a moment's notice, your money or boodle they could in one fell swoop at a moment's notice, your money or
your life, leaving you there to point a moral, gagged and garrotted. your life, leaving you there to point a moral, gagged and garrotted.
Stephen, that is when the accosting figure came to close quarters, though Stephen, that is when the accosting figure came to close quarters, though
he was not in an over sober state himself recognised Corley's breath he was not in an over sober state himself recognised Corley's breath
redolent of rotten cornjuice. Lord John Corley some called him and his redolent of rotten cornjuice. Lord John Corley some called him and his
genealogy came about in this wise. He was the eldest son of inspector genealogy came about in this wise. He was the eldest son of inspector
Corley of the G division, lately deceased, who had married a certain Corley of the G division, lately deceased, who had married a certain
Katherine Brophy, the daughter of a Louth farmer. His grandfather Patrick Katherine Brophy, the daughter of a Louth farmer. His grandfather Patrick
Michael Corley of New Ross had married the widow of a publican there Michael Corley of New Ross had married the widow of a publican there
whose maiden name had been Katherine (also) Talbot. Rumour had it (though whose maiden name had been Katherine (also) Talbot. Rumour had it (though
not proved) that she descended from the house of the lords Talbot de not proved) that she descended from the house of the lords Talbot de
Malahide in whose mansion, really an unquestionably fine residence of its Malahide in whose mansion, really an unquestionably fine residence of its
kind and well worth seeing, her mother or aunt or some relative, a woman, kind and well worth seeing, her mother or aunt or some relative, a woman,
as the tale went, of extreme beauty, had enjoyed the distinction of being as the tale went, of extreme beauty, had enjoyed the distinction of being
in service in the washkitchen. This therefore was the reason why the in service in the washkitchen. This therefore was the reason why the
still comparatively young though dissolute man who now addressed Stephen still comparatively young though dissolute man who now addressed Stephen
was spoken of by some with facetious proclivities as Lord John Corley. was spoken of by some with facetious proclivities as Lord John Corley.
Taking Stephen on one side he had the customary doleful ditty to tell. Taking Stephen on one side he had the customary doleful ditty to tell.
Not as much as a farthing to purchase a night's lodgings. His friends had Not as much as a farthing to purchase a night's lodgings. His friends had
all deserted him. Furthermore he had a row with Lenehan and called him to all deserted him. Furthermore he had a row with Lenehan and called him to
Stephen a mean bloody swab with a sprinkling of a number of other Stephen a mean bloody swab with a sprinkling of a number of other
uncalledfor expressions. He was out of a job and implored of Stephen to uncalledfor expressions. He was out of a job and implored of Stephen to
tell him where on God's earth he could get something, anything at all, to tell him where on God's earth he could get something, anything at all, to
do. No, it was the daughter of the mother in the washkitchen that was do. No, it was the daughter of the mother in the washkitchen that was
fostersister to the heir of the house or else they were connected through fostersister to the heir of the house or else they were connected through
the mother in some way, both occurrences happening at the same time if the mother in some way, both occurrences happening at the same time if
the whole thing wasn't a complete fabrication from start to finish. the whole thing wasn't a complete fabrication from start to finish.
Anyhow he was all in. Anyhow he was all in.
--I wouldn't ask you only, pursued he, on my solemn oath and God knows --I wouldn't ask you only, pursued he, on my solemn oath and God knows
I'm on the rocks. I'm on the rocks.
--There'll be a job tomorrow or next day, Stephen told him, in a boys' --There'll be a job tomorrow or next day, Stephen told him, in a boys'
school at Dalkey for a gentleman usher. Mr Garrett Deasy. Try it. You may school at Dalkey for a gentleman usher. Mr Garrett Deasy. Try it. You may
mention my name. mention my name.
--Ah, God, Corley replied, sure I couldn't teach in a school, man. I was --Ah, God, Corley replied, sure I couldn't teach in a school, man. I was
never one of your bright ones, he added with a half laugh. I got stuck never one of your bright ones, he added with a half laugh. I got stuck
twice in the junior at the christian brothers. twice in the junior at the christian brothers.
--I have no place to sleep myself, Stephen informed him. --I have no place to sleep myself, Stephen informed him.
Corley at the first go-off was inclined to suspect it was something to do Corley at the first go-off was inclined to suspect it was something to do
with Stephen being fired out of his digs for bringing in a bloody tart with Stephen being fired out of his digs for bringing in a bloody tart
off the street. There was a dosshouse in Marlborough street, Mrs off the street. There was a dosshouse in Marlborough street, Mrs
Maloney's, but it was only a tanner touch and full of undesirables but Maloney's, but it was only a tanner touch and full of undesirables but
M'Conachie told him you got a decent enough do in the Brazen Head over in M'Conachie told him you got a decent enough do in the Brazen Head over in
Winetavern street (which was distantly suggestive to the person addressed Winetavern street (which was distantly suggestive to the person addressed
of friar Bacon) for a bob. He was starving too though he hadn't said a of friar Bacon) for a bob. He was starving too though he hadn't said a
word about it. word about it.
Though this sort of thing went on every other night or very near it still Though this sort of thing went on every other night or very near it still
Stephen's feelings got the better of him in a sense though he knew that Stephen's feelings got the better of him in a sense though he knew that
Corley's brandnew rigmarole on a par with the others was hardly deserving Corley's brandnew rigmarole on a par with the others was hardly deserving
of much credence. However HAUD IGNARUS MALORUM MISERIS SUCCURRERE DISCO of much credence. However HAUD IGNARUS MALORUM MISERIS SUCCURRERE DISCO
etcetera as the Latin poet remarks especially as luck would have it he etcetera as the Latin poet remarks especially as luck would have it he
got paid his screw after every middle of the month on the sixteenth which got paid his screw after every middle of the month on the sixteenth which
was the date of the month as a matter of fact though a good bit of the was the date of the month as a matter of fact though a good bit of the
wherewithal was demolished. But the cream of the joke was nothing would wherewithal was demolished. But the cream of the joke was nothing would
get it out of Corley's head that he was living in affluence and hadn't a get it out of Corley's head that he was living in affluence and hadn't a
thing to do but hand out the needful. Whereas. He put his hand in a thing to do but hand out the needful. Whereas. He put his hand in a
pocket anyhow not with the idea of finding any food there but thinking he pocket anyhow not with the idea of finding any food there but thinking he
might lend him anything up to a bob or so in lieu so that he might might lend him anything up to a bob or so in lieu so that he might
endeavour at all events and get sufficient to eat but the result was in endeavour at all events and get sufficient to eat but the result was in
the negative for, to his chagrin, he found his cash missing. A few broken the negative for, to his chagrin, he found his cash missing. A few broken
biscuits were all the result of his investigation. He tried his hardest biscuits were all the result of his investigation. He tried his hardest
to recollect for the moment whether he had lost as well he might have or to recollect for the moment whether he had lost as well he might have or
left because in that contingency it was not a pleasant lookout, very much left because in that contingency it was not a pleasant lookout, very much
the reverse in fact. He was altogether too fagged out to institute a the reverse in fact. He was altogether too fagged out to institute a
thorough search though he tried to recollect. About biscuits he dimly thorough search though he tried to recollect. About biscuits he dimly
remembered. Who now exactly gave them he wondered or where was or did he remembered. Who now exactly gave them he wondered or where was or did he
buy. However in another pocket he came across what he surmised in the buy. However in another pocket he came across what he surmised in the
dark were pennies, erroneously however, as it turned out. dark were pennies, erroneously however, as it turned out.
--Those are halfcrowns, man, Corley corrected him. --Those are halfcrowns, man, Corley corrected him.
And so in point of fact they turned out to be. Stephen anyhow lent him And so in point of fact they turned out to be. Stephen anyhow lent him
one of them. one of them.
--Thanks, Corley answered, you're a gentleman. I'll pay you back one --Thanks, Corley answered, you're a gentleman. I'll pay you back one
time. Who's that with you? I saw him a few times in the Bleeding Horse in time. Who's that with you? I saw him a few times in the Bleeding Horse in
Camden street with Boylan, the billsticker. You might put in a good word Camden street with Boylan, the billsticker. You might put in a good word
for us to get me taken on there. I'd carry a sandwichboard only the girl for us to get me taken on there. I'd carry a sandwichboard only the girl
in the office told me they're full up for the next three weeks, man. God, in the office told me they're full up for the next three weeks, man. God,
you've to book ahead, man, you'd think it was for the Carl Rosa. I don't you've to book ahead, man, you'd think it was for the Carl Rosa. I don't
give a shite anyway so long as I get a job, even as a crossing sweeper. give a shite anyway so long as I get a job, even as a crossing sweeper.
Subsequently being not quite so down in the mouth after the two and six Subsequently being not quite so down in the mouth after the two and six
he got he informed Stephen about a fellow by the name of Bags Comisky he got he informed Stephen about a fellow by the name of Bags Comisky
that he said Stephen knew well out of Fullam's, the shipchandler's, that he said Stephen knew well out of Fullam's, the shipchandler's,
bookkeeper there that used to be often round in Nagle's back with O'Mara bookkeeper there that used to be often round in Nagle's back with O'Mara
and a little chap with a stutter the name of Tighe. Anyhow he was lagged and a little chap with a stutter the name of Tighe. Anyhow he was lagged
the night before last and fined ten bob for a drunk and disorderly and the night before last and fined ten bob for a drunk and disorderly and
refusing to go with the constable. refusing to go with the constable.
Mr Bloom in the meanwhile kept dodging about in the vicinity of the Mr Bloom in the meanwhile kept dodging about in the vicinity of the
cobblestones near the brazier of coke in front of the corporation cobblestones near the brazier of coke in front of the corporation
watchman's sentrybox who evidently a glutton for work, it struck him, was watchman's sentrybox who evidently a glutton for work, it struck him, was
having a quiet forty winks for all intents and purposes on his own having a quiet forty winks for all intents and purposes on his own
private account while Dublin slept. He threw an odd eye at the same time private account while Dublin slept. He threw an odd eye at the same time
now and then at Stephen's anything but immaculately attired interlocutor now and then at Stephen's anything but immaculately attired interlocutor
as if he had seen that nobleman somewhere or other though where he was as if he had seen that nobleman somewhere or other though where he was
not in a position to truthfully state nor had he the remotest idea when. not in a position to truthfully state nor had he the remotest idea when.
Being a levelheaded individual who could give points to not a few in Being a levelheaded individual who could give points to not a few in
point of shrewd observation he also remarked on his very dilapidated hat point of shrewd observation he also remarked on his very dilapidated hat
and slouchy wearing apparel generally testifying to a chronic and slouchy wearing apparel generally testifying to a chronic
impecuniosity. Palpably he was one of his hangerson but for the matter of impecuniosity. Palpably he was one of his hangerson but for the matter of
that it was merely a question of one preying on his nextdoor neighbour that it was merely a question of one preying on his nextdoor neighbour
all round, in every deep, so to put it, a deeper depth and for the matter all round, in every deep, so to put it, a deeper depth and for the matter
of that if the man in the street chanced to be in the dock himself penal of that if the man in the street chanced to be in the dock himself penal
servitude with or without the option of a fine would be a very rara avis servitude with or without the option of a fine would be a very rara avis
altogether. In any case he had a consummate amount of cool assurance altogether. In any case he had a consummate amount of cool assurance
intercepting people at that hour of the night or morning. Pretty thick intercepting people at that hour of the night or morning. Pretty thick
that was certainly. that was certainly.
The pair parted company and Stephen rejoined Mr Bloom who, with his The pair parted company and Stephen rejoined Mr Bloom who, with his
practised eye, was not without perceiving that he had succumbed to the practised eye, was not without perceiving that he had succumbed to the
blandiloquence of the other parasite. Alluding to the encounter he said, blandiloquence of the other parasite. Alluding to the encounter he said,
laughingly, Stephen, that is: laughingly, Stephen, that is:
--He is down on his luck. He asked me to ask you to ask somebody named --He is down on his luck. He asked me to ask you to ask somebody named
Boylan, a billsticker, to give him a job as a sandwichman. Boylan, a billsticker, to give him a job as a sandwichman.
At this intelligence, in which he seemingly evinced little interest, Mr At this intelligence, in which he seemingly evinced little interest, Mr
Bloom gazed abstractedly for the space of a half a second or so in the Bloom gazed abstractedly for the space of a half a second or so in the
direction of a bucketdredger, rejoicing in the farfamed name of Eblana, direction of a bucketdredger, rejoicing in the farfamed name of Eblana,
moored alongside Customhouse quay and quite possibly out of repair, moored alongside Customhouse quay and quite possibly out of repair,
whereupon he observed evasively: whereupon he observed evasively:
--Everybody gets their own ration of luck, they say. Now you mention it --Everybody gets their own ration of luck, they say. Now you mention it
his face was familiar to me. But, leaving that for the moment, how much his face was familiar to me. But, leaving that for the moment, how much
did you part with, he queried, if I am not too inquisitive? did you part with, he queried, if I am not too inquisitive?
--Half a crown, Stephen responded. I daresay he needs it to sleep --Half a crown, Stephen responded. I daresay he needs it to sleep
somewhere. somewhere.
--Needs! Mr Bloom ejaculated, professing not the least surprise at the --Needs! Mr Bloom ejaculated, professing not the least surprise at the
intelligence, I can quite credit the assertion and I guarantee he intelligence, I can quite credit the assertion and I guarantee he
invariably does. Everyone according to his needs or everyone according to invariably does. Everyone according to his needs or everyone according to
his deeds. But, talking about things in general, where, added he with a his deeds. But, talking about things in general, where, added he with a
smile, will you sleep yourself? Walking to Sandycove is out of the smile, will you sleep yourself? Walking to Sandycove is out of the
question. And even supposing you did you won't get in after what occurred question. And even supposing you did you won't get in after what occurred
at Westland Row station. Simply fag out there for nothing. I don't mean at Westland Row station. Simply fag out there for nothing. I don't mean
to presume to dictate to you in the slightest degree but why did you to presume to dictate to you in the slightest degree but why did you
leave your father's house? leave your father's house?
--To seek misfortune, was Stephen's answer. --To seek misfortune, was Stephen's answer.
--I met your respected father on a recent occasion, Mr Bloom --I met your respected father on a recent occasion, Mr Bloom
diplomatically returned, today in fact, or to be strictly accurate, on diplomatically returned, today in fact, or to be strictly accurate, on
yesterday. Where does he live at present? I gathered in the course of yesterday. Where does he live at present? I gathered in the course of
conversation that he had moved. conversation that he had moved.
--I believe he is in Dublin somewhere, Stephen answered unconcernedly. --I believe he is in Dublin somewhere, Stephen answered unconcernedly.
Why? Why?
--A gifted man, Mr Bloom said of Mr Dedalus senior, in more respects than --A gifted man, Mr Bloom said of Mr Dedalus senior, in more respects than
one and a born RACONTEUR if ever there was one. He takes great pride, one and a born RACONTEUR if ever there was one. He takes great pride,
quite legitimate, out of you. You could go back perhaps, he hasarded, quite legitimate, out of you. You could go back perhaps, he hasarded,
still thinking of the very unpleasant scene at Westland Row terminus when still thinking of the very unpleasant scene at Westland Row terminus when
it was perfectly evident that the other two, Mulligan, that is, and that it was perfectly evident that the other two, Mulligan, that is, and that
English tourist friend of his, who eventually euchred their third English tourist friend of his, who eventually euchred their third
companion, were patently trying as if the whole bally station belonged to companion, were patently trying as if the whole bally station belonged to
them to give Stephen the slip in the confusion, which they did. them to give Stephen the slip in the confusion, which they did.
There was no response forthcoming to the suggestion however, such as it There was no response forthcoming to the suggestion however, such as it
was, Stephen's mind's eye being too busily engaged in repicturing his was, Stephen's mind's eye being too busily engaged in repicturing his
family hearth the last time he saw it with his sister Dilly sitting by family hearth the last time he saw it with his sister Dilly sitting by
the ingle, her hair hanging down, waiting for some weak Trinidad shell the ingle, her hair hanging down, waiting for some weak Trinidad shell
cocoa that was in the sootcoated kettle to be done so that she and he cocoa that was in the sootcoated kettle to be done so that she and he
could drink it with the oatmealwater for milk after the Friday herrings could drink it with the oatmealwater for milk after the Friday herrings
they had eaten at two a penny with an egg apiece for Maggy, Boody and they had eaten at two a penny with an egg apiece for Maggy, Boody and
Katey, the cat meanwhile under the mangle devouring a mess of eggshells Katey, the cat meanwhile under the mangle devouring a mess of eggshells
and charred fish heads and bones on a square of brown paper, in and charred fish heads and bones on a square of brown paper, in
accordance with the third precept of the church to fast and abstain on accordance with the third precept of the church to fast and abstain on
the days commanded, it being quarter tense or if not, ember days or the days commanded, it being quarter tense or if not, ember days or
something like that. something like that.
--No, Mr Bloom repeated again, I wouldn't personally repose much trust in --No, Mr Bloom repeated again, I wouldn't personally repose much trust in
that boon companion of yours who contributes the humorous element, Dr that boon companion of yours who contributes the humorous element, Dr
Mulligan, as a guide, philosopher and friend if I were in your shoes. He Mulligan, as a guide, philosopher and friend if I were in your shoes. He
knows which side his bread is buttered on though in all probability he knows which side his bread is buttered on though in all probability he
never realised what it is to be without regular meals. Of course you never realised what it is to be without regular meals. Of course you
didn't notice as much as I did. But it wouldn't occasion me the least didn't notice as much as I did. But it wouldn't occasion me the least
surprise to learn that a pinch of tobacco or some narcotic was put in surprise to learn that a pinch of tobacco or some narcotic was put in
your drink for some ulterior object. your drink for some ulterior object.
He understood however from all he heard that Dr Mulligan was a versatile He understood however from all he heard that Dr Mulligan was a versatile
allround man, by no means confined to medicine only, who was rapidly allround man, by no means confined to medicine only, who was rapidly
coming to the fore in his line and, if the report was verified, bade fair coming to the fore in his line and, if the report was verified, bade fair
to enjoy a flourishing practice in the not too distant future as a tony to enjoy a flourishing practice in the not too distant future as a tony
medical practitioner drawing a handsome fee for his services in addition medical practitioner drawing a handsome fee for his services in addition
to which professional status his rescue of that man from certain drowning to which professional status his rescue of that man from certain drowning
by artificial respiration and what they call first aid at Skerries, or by artificial respiration and what they call first aid at Skerries, or
Malahide was it?, was, he was bound to admit, an exceedingly plucky deed Malahide was it?, was, he was bound to admit, an exceedingly plucky deed
which he could not too highly praise, so that frankly he was utterly at a which he could not too highly praise, so that frankly he was utterly at a
loss to fathom what earthly reason could be at the back of it except he loss to fathom what earthly reason could be at the back of it except he
put it down to sheer cussedness or jealousy, pure and simple. put it down to sheer cussedness or jealousy, pure and simple.
--Except it simply amounts to one thing and he is what they call picking --Except it simply amounts to one thing and he is what they call picking
your brains, he ventured to throw o.ut. your brains, he ventured to throw o.ut.
The guarded glance of half solicitude half curiosity augmented by The guarded glance of half solicitude half curiosity augmented by
friendliness which he gave at Stephen's at present morose expression of friendliness which he gave at Stephen's at present morose expression of
features did not throw a flood of light, none at all in fact on the features did not throw a flood of light, none at all in fact on the
problem as to whether he had let himself be badly bamboozled to judge by problem as to whether he had let himself be badly bamboozled to judge by
two or three lowspirited remarks he let drop or the other way about saw two or three lowspirited remarks he let drop or the other way about saw
through the affair and for some reason or other best known to himself through the affair and for some reason or other best known to himself
allowed matters to more or less. Grinding poverty did have that effect allowed matters to more or less. Grinding poverty did have that effect
and he more than conjectured that, high educational abilities though he and he more than conjectured that, high educational abilities though he
possessed, he experienced no little difficulty in making both ends meet. possessed, he experienced no little difficulty in making both ends meet.
Adjacent to the men's public urinal they perceived an icecream car round Adjacent to the men's public urinal they perceived an icecream car round
which a group of presumably Italians in heated altercation were getting which a group of presumably Italians in heated altercation were getting
rid of voluble expressions in their vivacious language in a particularly rid of voluble expressions in their vivacious language in a particularly
animated way, there being some little differences between the parties. animated way, there being some little differences between the parties.
--PUTTANA MADONNA, CHE CI DIA I QUATTRINI! HO RAGIONE? CULO ROTTO! --PUTTANA MADONNA, CHE CI DIA I QUATTRINI! HO RAGIONE? CULO ROTTO!
--INTENDIAMOCI. MEZZO SOVRANO PIU ... --INTENDIAMOCI. MEZZO SOVRANO PIU ...
--DICE LUI, PERO! --DICE LUI, PERO!
--MEZZO. --MEZZO.
--FARABUTTO! MORTACCI SUI! --FARABUTTO! MORTACCI SUI!
--MA ASCOLTA! CINQUE LA TESTA PIU ... --MA ASCOLTA! CINQUE LA TESTA PIU ...
Mr Bloom and Stephen entered the cabman's shelter, an unpretentious Mr Bloom and Stephen entered the cabman's shelter, an unpretentious
wooden structure, where, prior to then, he had rarely if ever been wooden structure, where, prior to then, he had rarely if ever been
before, the former having previously whispered to the latter a few hints before, the former having previously whispered to the latter a few hints
anent the keeper of it said to be the once famous Skin-the-Goat anent the keeper of it said to be the once famous Skin-the-Goat
Fitzharris, the invincible, though he could not vouch for the actual Fitzharris, the invincible, though he could not vouch for the actual
facts which quite possibly there was not one vestige of truth in. A few facts which quite possibly there was not one vestige of truth in. A few
moments later saw our two noctambules safely seated in a discreet corner moments later saw our two noctambules safely seated in a discreet corner
only to be greeted by stares from the decidedly miscellaneous collection only to be greeted by stares from the decidedly miscellaneous collection
of waifs and strays and other nondescript specimens of the genus HOMO of waifs and strays and other nondescript specimens of the genus HOMO
already there engaged in eating and drinking diversified by conversation already there engaged in eating and drinking diversified by conversation
for whom they seemingly formed an object of marked curiosity. for whom they seemingly formed an object of marked curiosity.
--Now touching a cup of coffee, Mr Bloom ventured to plausibly suggest to --Now touching a cup of coffee, Mr Bloom ventured to plausibly suggest to
break the ice, it occurs to me you ought to sample something in the shape break the ice, it occurs to me you ought to sample something in the shape
of solid food, say, a roll of some description. of solid food, say, a roll of some description.
Accordingly his first act was with characteristic SANGFROID to order Accordingly his first act was with characteristic SANGFROID to order
these commodities quietly. The HOI POLLOI of jarvies or stevedores or these commodities quietly. The HOI POLLOI of jarvies or stevedores or
whatever they were after a cursory examination turned their eyes whatever they were after a cursory examination turned their eyes
apparently dissatisfied, away though one redbearded bibulous individual apparently dissatisfied, away though one redbearded bibulous individual
portion of whose hair was greyish, a sailor probably, still stared for portion of whose hair was greyish, a sailor probably, still stared for
some appreciable time before transferring his rapt attention to the some appreciable time before transferring his rapt attention to the
floor. Mr Bloom, availing himself of the right of free speech, he having floor. Mr Bloom, availing himself of the right of free speech, he having
just a bowing acquaintance with the language in dispute, though, to be just a bowing acquaintance with the language in dispute, though, to be
sure, rather in a quandary over VOGLIO, remarked to his PROTEGE in an sure, rather in a quandary over VOGLIO, remarked to his PROTEGE in an
audible tone of voice A PROPOS of the battle royal in the street which audible tone of voice A PROPOS of the battle royal in the street which
was still raging fast and furious: was still raging fast and furious:
--A beautiful language. I mean for singing purposes. Why do you not write --A beautiful language. I mean for singing purposes. Why do you not write
your poetry in that language? BELLA POETRIA! It is so melodious and full. your poetry in that language? BELLA POETRIA! It is so melodious and full.
BELLADONNA. VOGLIO. BELLADONNA. VOGLIO.
Stephen, who was trying his dead best to yawn if he could, suffering from Stephen, who was trying his dead best to yawn if he could, suffering from
lassitude generally, replied: lassitude generally, replied:
--To fill the ear of a cow elephant. They were haggling over money. --To fill the ear of a cow elephant. They were haggling over money.
--Is that so? Mr Bloom asked. Of course, he subjoined pensively, at the --Is that so? Mr Bloom asked. Of course, he subjoined pensively, at the
inward reflection of there being more languages to start with than were inward reflection of there being more languages to start with than were
absolutely necessary, it may be only the southern glamour that surrounds absolutely necessary, it may be only the southern glamour that surrounds
it. it.
The keeper of the shelter in the middle of this TETE-A-TETE put a boiling The keeper of the shelter in the middle of this TETE-A-TETE put a boiling
swimming cup of a choice concoction labelled coffee on the table and a swimming cup of a choice concoction labelled coffee on the table and a
rather antediluvian specimen of a bun, or so it seemed. After which he rather antediluvian specimen of a bun, or so it seemed. After which he
beat a retreat to his counter, Mr Bloom determining to have a good square beat a retreat to his counter, Mr Bloom determining to have a good square
look at him later on so as not to appear to. For which reason he look at him later on so as not to appear to. For which reason he
encouraged Stephen to proceed with his eyes while he did the honours by encouraged Stephen to proceed with his eyes while he did the honours by
surreptitiously pushing the cup of what was temporarily supposed to be surreptitiously pushing the cup of what was temporarily supposed to be
called coffee gradually nearer him. called coffee gradually nearer him.
--Sounds are impostures, Stephen said after a pause of some little time, --Sounds are impostures, Stephen said after a pause of some little time,
like names. Cicero, Podmore. Napoleon, Mr Goodbody. Jesus, Mr Doyle. like names. Cicero, Podmore. Napoleon, Mr Goodbody. Jesus, Mr Doyle.
Shakespeares were as common as Murphies. What's in a name? Shakespeares were as common as Murphies. What's in a name?
--Yes, to be sure, Mr Bloom unaffectedly concurred. Of course. Our name --Yes, to be sure, Mr Bloom unaffectedly concurred. Of course. Our name
was changed too, he added, pushing the socalled roll across. was changed too, he added, pushing the socalled roll across.
The redbearded sailor who had his weather eye on the newcomers boarded The redbearded sailor who had his weather eye on the newcomers boarded
Stephen, whom he had singled out for attention in particular, squarely by Stephen, whom he had singled out for attention in particular, squarely by
asking: asking:
--And what might your name be? --And what might your name be?
Just in the nick of time Mr Bloom touched his companion's boot but Just in the nick of time Mr Bloom touched his companion's boot but
Stephen, apparently disregarding the warm pressure from an unexpected Stephen, apparently disregarding the warm pressure from an unexpected
quarter, answered: quarter, answered:
--Dedalus. --Dedalus.
The sailor stared at him heavily from a pair of drowsy baggy eyes, rather The sailor stared at him heavily from a pair of drowsy baggy eyes, rather
bunged up from excessive use of boose, preferably good old Hollands and bunged up from excessive use of boose, preferably good old Hollands and
water. water.
--You know Simon Dedalus? he asked at length. --You know Simon Dedalus? he asked at length.
--I've heard of him, Stephen said. --I've heard of him, Stephen said.
Mr Bloom was all at sea for a moment, seeing the others evidently Mr Bloom was all at sea for a moment, seeing the others evidently
eavesdropping too. eavesdropping too.
--He's Irish, the seaman bold affirmed, staring still in much the same --He's Irish, the seaman bold affirmed, staring still in much the same
way and nodding. All Irish. way and nodding. All Irish.
--All too Irish, Stephen rejoined. --All too Irish, Stephen rejoined.
As for Mr Bloom he could neither make head or tail of the whole business As for Mr Bloom he could neither make head or tail of the whole business
and he was just asking himself what possible connection when the sailor and he was just asking himself what possible connection when the sailor
of his own accord turned to the other occupants of the shelter with the of his own accord turned to the other occupants of the shelter with the
remark: remark:
--I seen him shoot two eggs off two bottles at fifty yards over his --I seen him shoot two eggs off two bottles at fifty yards over his
shoulder. The lefthand dead shot. shoulder. The lefthand dead shot.
Though he was slightly hampered by an occasional stammer and his gestures Though he was slightly hampered by an occasional stammer and his gestures
being also clumsy as it was still he did his best to explain. being also clumsy as it was still he did his best to explain.
--Bottles out there, say. Fifty yards measured. Eggs on the bottles. --Bottles out there, say. Fifty yards measured. Eggs on the bottles.
Cocks his gun over his shoulder. Aims. Cocks his gun over his shoulder. Aims.
He turned his body half round, shut up his right eye completely. Then he He turned his body half round, shut up his right eye completely. Then he
screwed his features up someway sideways and glared out into the night screwed his features up someway sideways and glared out into the night
with an unprepossessing cast of countenance. with an unprepossessing cast of countenance.
--Pom! he then shouted once. --Pom! he then shouted once.
The entire audience waited, anticipating an additional detonation, there The entire audience waited, anticipating an additional detonation, there
being still a further egg. being still a further egg.
--Pom! he shouted twice. --Pom! he shouted twice.
Egg two evidently demolished, he nodded and winked, adding Egg two evidently demolished, he nodded and winked, adding
bloodthirstily: bloodthirstily:
  --BUFFALO BILL SHOOTS TO KILL,   --BUFFALO BILL SHOOTS TO KILL,
    NEVER MISSED NOR HE NEVER WILL.     NEVER MISSED NOR HE NEVER WILL.
A silence ensued till Mr Bloom for agreeableness' sake just felt like A silence ensued till Mr Bloom for agreeableness' sake just felt like
asking him whether it was for a marksmanship competition like the Bisley. asking him whether it was for a marksmanship competition like the Bisley.
--Beg pardon, the sailor said. --Beg pardon, the sailor said.
--Long ago? Mr Bloom pursued without flinching a hairsbreadth. --Long ago? Mr Bloom pursued without flinching a hairsbreadth.
--Why, the sailor replied, relaxing to a certain extent under the magic --Why, the sailor replied, relaxing to a certain extent under the magic
influence of diamond cut diamond, it might be a matter of ten years. He influence of diamond cut diamond, it might be a matter of ten years. He
toured the wide world with Hengler's Royal Circus. I seen him do that in toured the wide world with Hengler's Royal Circus. I seen him do that in
Stockholm. Stockholm.
--Curious coincidence, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen unobtrusively. --Curious coincidence, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen unobtrusively.
--Murphy's my name, the sailor continued. D. B. Murphy of Carrigaloe. --Murphy's my name, the sailor continued. D. B. Murphy of Carrigaloe.
Know where that is? Know where that is?
--Queenstown harbour, Stephen replied. --Queenstown harbour, Stephen replied.
--That's right, the sailor said. Fort Camden and Fort Carlisle. That's --That's right, the sailor said. Fort Camden and Fort Carlisle. That's
where I hails from. I belongs there. That's where I hails from. My little where I hails from. I belongs there. That's where I hails from. My little
woman's down there. She's waiting for me, I know. FOR ENGLAND, HOME AND woman's down there. She's waiting for me, I know. FOR ENGLAND, HOME AND
BEAUTY. She's my own true wife I haven't seen for seven years now, BEAUTY. She's my own true wife I haven't seen for seven years now,
sailing about. sailing about.
Mr Bloom could easily picture his advent on this scene, the homecoming to Mr Bloom could easily picture his advent on this scene, the homecoming to
the mariner's roadside shieling after having diddled Davy Jones, a rainy the mariner's roadside shieling after having diddled Davy Jones, a rainy
night with a blind moon. Across the world for a wife. Quite a number of night with a blind moon. Across the world for a wife. Quite a number of
stories there were on that particular Alice Ben Bolt topic, Enoch Arden stories there were on that particular Alice Ben Bolt topic, Enoch Arden
and Rip van Winkle and does anybody hereabouts remember Caoc O'Leary, a and Rip van Winkle and does anybody hereabouts remember Caoc O'Leary, a
favourite and most trying declamation piece by the way of poor John Casey favourite and most trying declamation piece by the way of poor John Casey
and a bit of perfect poetry in its own small way. Never about the runaway and a bit of perfect poetry in its own small way. Never about the runaway
wife coming back, however much devoted to the absentee. The face at the wife coming back, however much devoted to the absentee. The face at the
window! Judge of his astonishment when he finally did breast the tape and window! Judge of his astonishment when he finally did breast the tape and
the awful truth dawned upon him anent his better half, wrecked in his the awful truth dawned upon him anent his better half, wrecked in his
affections. You little expected me but I've come to stay and make a fresh affections. You little expected me but I've come to stay and make a fresh
start. There she sits, a grasswidow, at the selfsame fireside. Believes start. There she sits, a grasswidow, at the selfsame fireside. Believes
me dead, rocked in the cradle of the deep. And there sits uncle Chubb or me dead, rocked in the cradle of the deep. And there sits uncle Chubb or
Tomkin, as the case might be, the publican of the Crown and Anchor, in Tomkin, as the case might be, the publican of the Crown and Anchor, in
shirtsleeves, eating rumpsteak and onions. No chair for father. Broo! The shirtsleeves, eating rumpsteak and onions. No chair for father. Broo! The
wind! Her brandnew arrival is on her knee, POST MORTEM child. With a high wind! Her brandnew arrival is on her knee, POST MORTEM child. With a high
ro! and a randy ro! and my galloping tearing tandy, O! Bow to the ro! and a randy ro! and my galloping tearing tandy, O! Bow to the
inevitable. Grin and bear it. I remain with much love your brokenhearted inevitable. Grin and bear it. I remain with much love your brokenhearted
husband D B Murphy. husband D B Murphy.
The sailor, who scarcely seemed to be a Dublin resident, turned to one of The sailor, who scarcely seemed to be a Dublin resident, turned to one of
the jarvies with the request: the jarvies with the request:
--You don't happen to have such a thing as a spare chaw about you? --You don't happen to have such a thing as a spare chaw about you?
The jarvey addressed as it happened had not but the keeper took a die of The jarvey addressed as it happened had not but the keeper took a die of
plug from his good jacket hanging on a nail and the desired object was plug from his good jacket hanging on a nail and the desired object was
passed from hand to hand. passed from hand to hand.
--Thank you, the sailor said. --Thank you, the sailor said.
He deposited the quid in his gob and, chewing and with some slow He deposited the quid in his gob and, chewing and with some slow
stammers, proceeded: stammers, proceeded:
--We come up this morning eleven o'clock. The threemaster ROSEVEAN from --We come up this morning eleven o'clock. The threemaster ROSEVEAN from
Bridgwater with bricks. I shipped to get over. Paid off this afternoon. Bridgwater with bricks. I shipped to get over. Paid off this afternoon.
There's my discharge. See? D. B. Murphy. A. B. S. There's my discharge. See? D. B. Murphy. A. B. S.
In confirmation of which statement he extricated from an inside pocket In confirmation of which statement he extricated from an inside pocket
and handed to his neighbour a not very cleanlooking folded document. and handed to his neighbour a not very cleanlooking folded document.
--You must have seen a fair share of the world, the keeper remarked, --You must have seen a fair share of the world, the keeper remarked,
leaning on the counter. leaning on the counter.
--Why, the sailor answered upon reflection upon it, I've circumnavigated --Why, the sailor answered upon reflection upon it, I've circumnavigated
a bit since I first joined on. I was in the Red Sea. I was in China and a bit since I first joined on. I was in the Red Sea. I was in China and
North America and South America. We was chased by pirates one voyage. I North America and South America. We was chased by pirates one voyage. I
seen icebergs plenty, growlers. I was in Stockholm and the Black Sea, the seen icebergs plenty, growlers. I was in Stockholm and the Black Sea, the
Dardanelles under Captain Dalton, the best bloody man that ever scuttled Dardanelles under Captain Dalton, the best bloody man that ever scuttled
a ship. I seen Russia. GOSPODI POMILYOU. That's how the Russians prays. a ship. I seen Russia. GOSPODI POMILYOU. That's how the Russians prays.
--You seen queer sights, don't be talking, put in a jarvey. --You seen queer sights, don't be talking, put in a jarvey.
--Why, the sailor said, shifting his partially chewed plug. I seen queer --Why, the sailor said, shifting his partially chewed plug. I seen queer
things too, ups and downs. I seen a crocodile bite the fluke of an anchor things too, ups and downs. I seen a crocodile bite the fluke of an anchor
same as I chew that quid. same as I chew that quid.
He took out of his mouth the pulpy quid and, lodging it between his He took out of his mouth the pulpy quid and, lodging it between his
teeth, bit ferociously: teeth, bit ferociously:
--Khaan! Like that. And I seen maneaters in Peru that eats corpses and --Khaan! Like that. And I seen maneaters in Peru that eats corpses and
the livers of horses. Look here. Here they are. A friend of mine sent me. the livers of horses. Look here. Here they are. A friend of mine sent me.
He fumbled out a picture postcard from his inside pocket which seemed to He fumbled out a picture postcard from his inside pocket which seemed to
be in its way a species of repository and pushed it along the table. The be in its way a species of repository and pushed it along the table. The
printed matter on it stated: CHOZA DE INDIOS. BENI, BOLIVIA. printed matter on it stated: CHOZA DE INDIOS. BENI, BOLIVIA.
All focussed their attention at the scene exhibited, a group of savage All focussed their attention at the scene exhibited, a group of savage
women in striped loincloths, squatted, blinking, suckling, frowning, women in striped loincloths, squatted, blinking, suckling, frowning,
sleeping amid a swarm of infants (there must have been quite a score of sleeping amid a swarm of infants (there must have been quite a score of
them) outside some primitive shanties of osier. them) outside some primitive shanties of osier.
--Chews coca all day, the communicative tarpaulin added. Stomachs like --Chews coca all day, the communicative tarpaulin added. Stomachs like
breadgraters. Cuts off their diddies when they can't bear no more breadgraters. Cuts off their diddies when they can't bear no more
children. children.
See them sitting there stark ballocknaked eating a dead horse's liver See them sitting there stark ballocknaked eating a dead horse's liver
raw. raw.
His postcard proved a centre of attraction for Messrs the greenhorns for His postcard proved a centre of attraction for Messrs the greenhorns for
several minutes if not more. several minutes if not more.
--Know how to keep them off? he inquired generally. --Know how to keep them off? he inquired generally.
Nobody volunteering a statement he winked, saying: Nobody volunteering a statement he winked, saying:
--Glass. That boggles 'em. Glass. --Glass. That boggles 'em. Glass.
Mr Bloom, without evincing surprise, unostentatiously turned over the Mr Bloom, without evincing surprise, unostentatiously turned over the
card to peruse the partially obliterated address and postmark. It ran as card to peruse the partially obliterated address and postmark. It ran as
follows: TARJETA POSTAL, SENOR A BOUDIN, GALERIA BECCHE, SANTIAGO, CHILE. follows: TARJETA POSTAL, SENOR A BOUDIN, GALERIA BECCHE, SANTIAGO, CHILE.
There was no message evidently, as he took particular notice. Though not There was no message evidently, as he took particular notice. Though not
an implicit believer in the lurid story narrated (or the eggsniping an implicit believer in the lurid story narrated (or the eggsniping
transaction for that matter despite William Tell and the Lazarillo-Don transaction for that matter despite William Tell and the Lazarillo-Don
Cesar de Bazan incident depicted in MARITANA on which occasion the Cesar de Bazan incident depicted in MARITANA on which occasion the
former's ball passed through the latter's hat) having detected a former's ball passed through the latter's hat) having detected a
discrepancy between his name (assuming he was the person he represented discrepancy between his name (assuming he was the person he represented
himself to be and not sailing under false colours after having boxed the himself to be and not sailing under false colours after having boxed the
compass on the strict q.t. somewhere) and the fictitious addressee of the compass on the strict q.t. somewhere) and the fictitious addressee of the
missive which made him nourish some suspicions of our friend's BONA FIDES missive which made him nourish some suspicions of our friend's BONA FIDES
nevertheless it reminded him in a way of a longcherished plan he meant to nevertheless it reminded him in a way of a longcherished plan he meant to
one day realise some Wednesday or Saturday of travelling to London via one day realise some Wednesday or Saturday of travelling to London via
long sea not to say that he had ever travelled extensively to any great long sea not to say that he had ever travelled extensively to any great
extent but he was at heart a born adventurer though by a trick of fate he extent but he was at heart a born adventurer though by a trick of fate he
had consistently remained a landlubber except you call going to Holyhead had consistently remained a landlubber except you call going to Holyhead
which was his longest. Martin Cunningham frequently said he would work a which was his longest. Martin Cunningham frequently said he would work a
pass through Egan but some deuced hitch or other eternally cropped up pass through Egan but some deuced hitch or other eternally cropped up
with the net result that the scheme fell through. But even suppose it did with the net result that the scheme fell through. But even suppose it did
come to planking down the needful and breaking Boyd's heart it was not so come to planking down the needful and breaking Boyd's heart it was not so
dear, purse permitting, a few guineas at the outside considering the fare dear, purse permitting, a few guineas at the outside considering the fare
to Mullingar where he figured on going was five and six, there and back. to Mullingar where he figured on going was five and six, there and back.
The trip would benefit health on account of the bracing ozone and be in The trip would benefit health on account of the bracing ozone and be in
every way thoroughly pleasurable, especially for a chap whose liver was every way thoroughly pleasurable, especially for a chap whose liver was
out of order, seeing the different places along the route, Plymouth, out of order, seeing the different places along the route, Plymouth,
Falmouth, Southampton and so on culminating in an instructive tour of the Falmouth, Southampton and so on culminating in an instructive tour of the
sights of the great metropolis, the spectacle of our modern Babylon where sights of the great metropolis, the spectacle of our modern Babylon where
doubtless he would see the greatest improvement, tower, abbey, wealth of doubtless he would see the greatest improvement, tower, abbey, wealth of
Park lane to renew acquaintance with. Another thing just struck him as a Park lane to renew acquaintance with. Another thing just struck him as a
by no means bad notion was he might have a gaze around on the spot to see by no means bad notion was he might have a gaze around on the spot to see
about trying to make arrangements about a concert tour of summer music about trying to make arrangements about a concert tour of summer music
embracing the most prominent pleasure resorts, Margate with mixed bathing embracing the most prominent pleasure resorts, Margate with mixed bathing
and firstrate hydros and spas, Eastbourne, Scarborough, Margate and so and firstrate hydros and spas, Eastbourne, Scarborough, Margate and so
on, beautiful Bournemouth, the Channel islands and similar bijou spots, on, beautiful Bournemouth, the Channel islands and similar bijou spots,
which might prove highly remunerative. Not, of course, with a hole and which might prove highly remunerative. Not, of course, with a hole and
corner scratch company or local ladies on the job, witness Mrs C P M'Coy corner scratch company or local ladies on the job, witness Mrs C P M'Coy
type lend me your valise and I'll post you the ticket. No, something top type lend me your valise and I'll post you the ticket. No, something top
notch, an all star Irish caste, the Tweedy-Flower grand opera company notch, an all star Irish caste, the Tweedy-Flower grand opera company
with his own legal consort as leading lady as a sort of counterblast to with his own legal consort as leading lady as a sort of counterblast to
the Elster Grimes and Moody-Manners, perfectly simple matter and he was the Elster Grimes and Moody-Manners, perfectly simple matter and he was
quite sanguine of success, providing puffs in the local papers could be quite sanguine of success, providing puffs in the local papers could be
managed by some fellow with a bit of bounce who could pull the managed by some fellow with a bit of bounce who could pull the
indispensable wires and thus combine business with pleasure. But who? indispensable wires and thus combine business with pleasure. But who?
That was the rub.  Also, without being actually positive, it struck him a That was the rub.  Also, without being actually positive, it struck him a
great field was to be opened up in the line of opening up new routes to great field was to be opened up in the line of opening up new routes to
keep pace with the times APROPOS of the Fishguard-Rosslare route which, keep pace with the times APROPOS of the Fishguard-Rosslare route which,
it was mooted, was once more on the TAPIS in the circumlocution it was mooted, was once more on the TAPIS in the circumlocution
departments with the usual quantity of red tape and dillydallying of departments with the usual quantity of red tape and dillydallying of
effete fogeydom and dunderheads generally. A great opportunity there effete fogeydom and dunderheads generally. A great opportunity there
certainly was for push and enterprise to meet the travelling needs of the certainly was for push and enterprise to meet the travelling needs of the
public at large, the average man, i.e. Brown, Robinson and Co. public at large, the average man, i.e. Brown, Robinson and Co.
It was a subject of regret and absurd as well on the face of it and no It was a subject of regret and absurd as well on the face of it and no
small blame to our vaunted society that the man in the street, when the small blame to our vaunted society that the man in the street, when the
system really needed toning up, for the matter of a couple of paltry system really needed toning up, for the matter of a couple of paltry
pounds was debarred from seeing more of the world they lived in instead pounds was debarred from seeing more of the world they lived in instead
of being always and ever cooped up since my old stick-in-the-mud took me of being always and ever cooped up since my old stick-in-the-mud took me
for a wife. After all, hang it, they had their eleven and more humdrum for a wife. After all, hang it, they had their eleven and more humdrum
months of it and merited a radical change of VENUE after the grind of months of it and merited a radical change of VENUE after the grind of
city life in the summertime for choice when dame Nature is at her city life in the summertime for choice when dame Nature is at her
spectacular best constituting nothing short of a new lease of life. There spectacular best constituting nothing short of a new lease of life. There
were equally excellent opportunities for vacationists in the home island, were equally excellent opportunities for vacationists in the home island,
delightful sylvan spots for rejuvenation, offering a plethora of delightful sylvan spots for rejuvenation, offering a plethora of
attractions as well as a bracing tonic for the system in and around attractions as well as a bracing tonic for the system in and around
Dublin and its picturesque environs even, Poulaphouca to which there was Dublin and its picturesque environs even, Poulaphouca to which there was
a steamtram, but also farther away from the madding crowd in Wicklow, a steamtram, but also farther away from the madding crowd in Wicklow,
rightly termed the garden of Ireland, an ideal neighbourhood for elderly rightly termed the garden of Ireland, an ideal neighbourhood for elderly
wheelmen so long as it didn't come down, and in the wilds of Donegal wheelmen so long as it didn't come down, and in the wilds of Donegal
where if report spoke true the COUP D'OEIL was exceedingly grand though where if report spoke true the COUP D'OEIL was exceedingly grand though
the lastnamed locality was not easily getatable so that the influx of the lastnamed locality was not easily getatable so that the influx of
visitors was not as yet all that it might be considering the signal visitors was not as yet all that it might be considering the signal
benefits to be derived from it while Howth with its historic associations benefits to be derived from it while Howth with its historic associations
and otherwise, Silken Thomas, Grace O'Malley, George IV, rhododendrons and otherwise, Silken Thomas, Grace O'Malley, George IV, rhododendrons
several hundred feet above sealevel was a favourite haunt with all sorts several hundred feet above sealevel was a favourite haunt with all sorts
and conditions of men especially in the spring when young men's fancy, and conditions of men especially in the spring when young men's fancy,
though it had its own toll of deaths by falling off the cliffs by design though it had its own toll of deaths by falling off the cliffs by design
or accidentally, usually, by the way, on their left leg, it being only or accidentally, usually, by the way, on their left leg, it being only
about three quarters of an hour's run from the pillar. Because of course about three quarters of an hour's run from the pillar. Because of course
uptodate tourist travelling was as yet merely in its infancy, so to uptodate tourist travelling was as yet merely in its infancy, so to
speak, and the accommodation left much to be desired. Interesting to speak, and the accommodation left much to be desired. Interesting to
fathom it seemed to him from a motive of curiosity, pure and simple, was fathom it seemed to him from a motive of curiosity, pure and simple, was
whether it was the traffic that created the route or viceversa or the two whether it was the traffic that created the route or viceversa or the two
sides in fact. He turned back the other side of the card, picture, and sides in fact. He turned back the other side of the card, picture, and
passed it along to Stephen. passed it along to Stephen.
--I seen a Chinese one time, related the doughty narrator, that had --I seen a Chinese one time, related the doughty narrator, that had
little pills like putty and he put them in the water and they opened and little pills like putty and he put them in the water and they opened and
every pill was something different. One was a ship, another was a house, every pill was something different. One was a ship, another was a house,
another was a flower. Cooks rats in your soup, he appetisingly added, the another was a flower. Cooks rats in your soup, he appetisingly added, the
chinks does. chinks does.
Possibly perceiving an expression of dubiosity on their faces the Possibly perceiving an expression of dubiosity on their faces the
globetrotter went on, adhering to his adventures. globetrotter went on, adhering to his adventures.
--And I seen a man killed in Trieste by an Italian chap. Knife in his --And I seen a man killed in Trieste by an Italian chap. Knife in his
back. Knife like that. back. Knife like that.
Whilst speaking he produced a dangerouslooking claspknife quite in Whilst speaking he produced a dangerouslooking claspknife quite in
keeping with his character and held it in the striking position. keeping with his character and held it in the striking position.
--In a knockingshop it was count of a tryon between two smugglers. Fellow --In a knockingshop it was count of a tryon between two smugglers. Fellow
hid behind a door, come up behind him. Like that. PREPARE TO MEET YOUR hid behind a door, come up behind him. Like that. PREPARE TO MEET YOUR
GOD, says he. Chuk! It went into his back up to the butt. GOD, says he. Chuk! It went into his back up to the butt.
His heavy glance drowsily roaming about kind of defied their further His heavy glance drowsily roaming about kind of defied their further
questions even should they by any chance want to. questions even should they by any chance want to.
--That's a good bit of steel, repeated he, examining his formidable --That's a good bit of steel, repeated he, examining his formidable
STILETTO. STILETTO.
After which harrowing DENOUEMENT sufficient to appal the stoutest he After which harrowing DENOUEMENT sufficient to appal the stoutest he
snapped the blade to and stowed the weapon in question away as before in snapped the blade to and stowed the weapon in question away as before in
his chamber of horrors, otherwise pocket. his chamber of horrors, otherwise pocket.
--They're great for the cold steel, somebody who was evidently quite in --They're great for the cold steel, somebody who was evidently quite in
the dark said for the benefit of them all. That was why they thought the the dark said for the benefit of them all. That was why they thought the
park murders of the invincibles was done by foreigners on account of them park murders of the invincibles was done by foreigners on account of them
using knives. using knives.
At this remark passed obviously in the spirit of WHERE IGNORANCE IS BLISS At this remark passed obviously in the spirit of WHERE IGNORANCE IS BLISS
Mr B. and Stephen, each in his own particular way, both instinctively Mr B. and Stephen, each in his own particular way, both instinctively
exchanged meaning glances, in a religious silence of the strictly ENTRE exchanged meaning glances, in a religious silence of the strictly ENTRE
NOUS variety however, towards where Skin-the-Goat, ALIAS the keeper, not NOUS variety however, towards where Skin-the-Goat, ALIAS the keeper, not
turning a hair, was drawing spurts of liquid from his boiler affair. His turning a hair, was drawing spurts of liquid from his boiler affair. His
inscrutable face which was really a work of art, a perfect study in inscrutable face which was really a work of art, a perfect study in
itself, beggaring description, conveyed the impression that he didn't itself, beggaring description, conveyed the impression that he didn't
understand one jot of what was going on. Funny, very! understand one jot of what was going on. Funny, very!
There ensued a somewhat lengthy pause. One man was reading in fits and There ensued a somewhat lengthy pause. One man was reading in fits and
starts a stained by coffee evening journal, another the card with the starts a stained by coffee evening journal, another the card with the
natives CHOZA DE, another the seaman's discharge. Mr Bloom, so far as he natives CHOZA DE, another the seaman's discharge. Mr Bloom, so far as he
was personally concerned, was just pondering in pensive mood. He vividly was personally concerned, was just pondering in pensive mood. He vividly
recollected when the occurrence alluded to took place as well as recollected when the occurrence alluded to took place as well as
yesterday, roughly some score of years previously in the days of the land yesterday, roughly some score of years previously in the days of the land
troubles, when it took the civilised world by storm, figuratively troubles, when it took the civilised world by storm, figuratively
speaking, early in the eighties, eightyone to be correct, when he was speaking, early in the eighties, eightyone to be correct, when he was
just turned fifteen. just turned fifteen.
--Ay, boss, the sailor broke in. Give us back them papers. --Ay, boss, the sailor broke in. Give us back them papers.
The request being complied with he clawed them up with a scrape. The request being complied with he clawed them up with a scrape.
--Have you seen the rock of Gibraltar? Mr Bloom inquired. --Have you seen the rock of Gibraltar? Mr Bloom inquired.
The sailor grimaced, chewing, in a way that might be read as yes, ay or The sailor grimaced, chewing, in a way that might be read as yes, ay or
no. no.
--Ah, you've touched there too, Mr Bloom said, Europa point, thinking he --Ah, you've touched there too, Mr Bloom said, Europa point, thinking he
had, in the hope that the rover might possibly by some reminiscences but had, in the hope that the rover might possibly by some reminiscences but
he failed to do so, simply letting spirt a jet of spew into the sawdust, he failed to do so, simply letting spirt a jet of spew into the sawdust,
and shook his head with a sort of lazy scorn. and shook his head with a sort of lazy scorn.
--What year would that be about? Mr B interrogated. Can you recall the --What year would that be about? Mr B interrogated. Can you recall the
boats? boats?
Our SOI-DISANT sailor munched heavily awhile hungrily before answering: Our SOI-DISANT sailor munched heavily awhile hungrily before answering:
--I'm tired of all them rocks in the sea, he said, and boats and ships. --I'm tired of all them rocks in the sea, he said, and boats and ships.
Salt junk all the time. Salt junk all the time.
Tired seemingly, he ceased. His questioner perceiving that he was not Tired seemingly, he ceased. His questioner perceiving that he was not
likely to get a great deal of change out of such a wily old customer, likely to get a great deal of change out of such a wily old customer,
fell to woolgathering on the enormous dimensions of the water about the fell to woolgathering on the enormous dimensions of the water about the
globe, suffice it to say that, as a casual glance at the map revealed, it globe, suffice it to say that, as a casual glance at the map revealed, it
covered fully three fourths of it and he fully realised accordingly what covered fully three fourths of it and he fully realised accordingly what
it meant to rule the waves. On more than one occasion, a dozen at the it meant to rule the waves. On more than one occasion, a dozen at the
lowest, near the North Bull at Dollymount he had remarked a superannuated lowest, near the North Bull at Dollymount he had remarked a superannuated
old salt, evidently derelict, seated habitually near the not particularly old salt, evidently derelict, seated habitually near the not particularly
redolent sea on the wall, staring quite obliviously at it and it at him, redolent sea on the wall, staring quite obliviously at it and it at him,
dreaming of fresh woods and pastures new as someone somewhere sings. And dreaming of fresh woods and pastures new as someone somewhere sings. And
it left him wondering why. Possibly he had tried to find out the secret it left him wondering why. Possibly he had tried to find out the secret
for himself, floundering up and down the antipodes and all that sort of for himself, floundering up and down the antipodes and all that sort of
thing and over and under, well, not exactly under, tempting the fates. thing and over and under, well, not exactly under, tempting the fates.
And the odds were twenty to nil there was really no secret about it at And the odds were twenty to nil there was really no secret about it at
all. Nevertheless, without going into the MINUTIAE of the business, the all. Nevertheless, without going into the MINUTIAE of the business, the
eloquent fact remained that the sea was there in all its glory and in the eloquent fact remained that the sea was there in all its glory and in the
natural course of things somebody or other had to sail on it and fly in natural course of things somebody or other had to sail on it and fly in
the face of providence though it merely went to show how people usually the face of providence though it merely went to show how people usually
contrived to load that sort of onus on to the other fellow like the hell contrived to load that sort of onus on to the other fellow like the hell
idea and the lottery and insurance which were run on identically the same idea and the lottery and insurance which were run on identically the same
lines so that for that very reason if no other lifeboat Sunday was a lines so that for that very reason if no other lifeboat Sunday was a
highly laudable institution to which the public at large, no matter where highly laudable institution to which the public at large, no matter where
living inland or seaside, as the case might be, having it brought home to living inland or seaside, as the case might be, having it brought home to
them like that should extend its gratitude also to the harbourmasters and them like that should extend its gratitude also to the harbourmasters and
coastguard service who had to man the rigging and push off and out amid coastguard service who had to man the rigging and push off and out amid
the elements whatever the season when duty called IRELAND EXPECTS THAT the elements whatever the season when duty called IRELAND EXPECTS THAT
EVERY MAN and so on and sometimes had a terrible time of it in the EVERY MAN and so on and sometimes had a terrible time of it in the
wintertime not forgetting the Irish lights, Kish and others, liable to wintertime not forgetting the Irish lights, Kish and others, liable to
capsize at any moment, rounding which he once with his daughter had capsize at any moment, rounding which he once with his daughter had
experienced some remarkably choppy, not to say stormy, weather. experienced some remarkably choppy, not to say stormy, weather.
--There was a fellow sailed with me in the Rover, the old seadog, himself --There was a fellow sailed with me in the Rover, the old seadog, himself
a rover, proceeded, went ashore and took up a soft job as gentleman's a rover, proceeded, went ashore and took up a soft job as gentleman's
valet at six quid a month. Them are his trousers I've on me and he gave valet at six quid a month. Them are his trousers I've on me and he gave
me an oilskin and that jackknife. I'm game for that job, shaving and me an oilskin and that jackknife. I'm game for that job, shaving and
brushup. I hate roaming about. There's my son now, Danny, run off to sea brushup. I hate roaming about. There's my son now, Danny, run off to sea
and his mother got him took in a draper's in Cork where he could be and his mother got him took in a draper's in Cork where he could be
drawing easy money. drawing easy money.
--What age is he? queried one hearer who, by the way, seen from the side, --What age is he? queried one hearer who, by the way, seen from the side,
bore a distant resemblance to Henry Campbell, the townclerk, away from bore a distant resemblance to Henry Campbell, the townclerk, away from
the carking cares of office, unwashed of course and in a seedy getup and the carking cares of office, unwashed of course and in a seedy getup and
a strong suspicion of nosepaint about the nasal appendage. a strong suspicion of nosepaint about the nasal appendage.
--Why, the sailor answered with a slow puzzled utterance, my son, Danny? --Why, the sailor answered with a slow puzzled utterance, my son, Danny?
He'd be about eighteen now, way I figure it. He'd be about eighteen now, way I figure it.
The Skibbereen father hereupon tore open his grey or unclean anyhow shirt The Skibbereen father hereupon tore open his grey or unclean anyhow shirt
with his two hands and scratched away at his chest on which was to be with his two hands and scratched away at his chest on which was to be
seen an image tattooed in blue Chinese ink intended to represent an seen an image tattooed in blue Chinese ink intended to represent an
anchor. anchor.
--There was lice in that bunk in Bridgwater, he remarked, sure as nuts. I --There was lice in that bunk in Bridgwater, he remarked, sure as nuts. I
must get a wash tomorrow or next day. It's them black lads I objects to. must get a wash tomorrow or next day. It's them black lads I objects to.
I hate those buggers. Suck your blood dry, they does. I hate those buggers. Suck your blood dry, they does.
Seeing they were all looking at his chest he accommodatingly dragged his Seeing they were all looking at his chest he accommodatingly dragged his
shirt more open so that on top of the timehonoured symbol of the shirt more open so that on top of the timehonoured symbol of the
mariner's hope and rest they had a full view of the figure 16 and a young mariner's hope and rest they had a full view of the figure 16 and a young
man's sideface looking frowningly rather. man's sideface looking frowningly rather.
--Tattoo, the exhibitor explained. That was done when we were Iying --Tattoo, the exhibitor explained. That was done when we were Iying
becalmed off Odessa in the Black Sea under Captain Dalton. Fellow, the becalmed off Odessa in the Black Sea under Captain Dalton. Fellow, the
name of Antonio, done that. There he is himself, a Greek. name of Antonio, done that. There he is himself, a Greek.
--Did it hurt much doing it? one asked the sailor. --Did it hurt much doing it? one asked the sailor.
That worthy, however, was busily engaged in collecting round the. Someway That worthy, however, was busily engaged in collecting round the. Someway
in his. Squeezing or. in his. Squeezing or.
--See here, he said, showing Antonio. There he is cursing the mate. And --See here, he said, showing Antonio. There he is cursing the mate. And
there he is now, he added, the same fellow, pulling the skin with his there he is now, he added, the same fellow, pulling the skin with his
fingers, some special knack evidently, and he laughing at a yarn. fingers, some special knack evidently, and he laughing at a yarn.
And in point of fact the young man named Antonio's livid face did And in point of fact the young man named Antonio's livid face did
actually look like forced smiling and the curious effect excited the actually look like forced smiling and the curious effect excited the
unreserved admiration of everybody including Skin-the-Goat, who this time unreserved admiration of everybody including Skin-the-Goat, who this time
stretched over. stretched over.
--Ay, ay, sighed the sailor, looking down on his manly chest. He's gone --Ay, ay, sighed the sailor, looking down on his manly chest. He's gone
too. Ate by sharks after. Ay, ay. too. Ate by sharks after. Ay, ay.
He let go of the skin so that the profile resumed the normal expression He let go of the skin so that the profile resumed the normal expression
of before. of before.
--Neat bit of work, one longshoreman said. --Neat bit of work, one longshoreman said.
--And what's the number for? loafer number two queried. --And what's the number for? loafer number two queried.
--Eaten alive? a third asked the sailor. --Eaten alive? a third asked the sailor.
--Ay, ay, sighed again the latter personage, more cheerily this time with --Ay, ay, sighed again the latter personage, more cheerily this time with
some sort of a half smile for a brief duration only in the direction of some sort of a half smile for a brief duration only in the direction of
the questioner about the number. Ate. A Greek he was. the questioner about the number. Ate. A Greek he was.
And then he added with rather gallowsbird humour considering his alleged And then he added with rather gallowsbird humour considering his alleged
end: end:
    --AS BAD AS OLD ANTONIO,     --AS BAD AS OLD ANTONIO,
    FOR HE LEFT ME ON MY OWNIO.     FOR HE LEFT ME ON MY OWNIO.
The face of a streetwalker glazed and haggard under a black straw hat The face of a streetwalker glazed and haggard under a black straw hat
peered askew round the door of the shelter palpably reconnoitring on her peered askew round the door of the shelter palpably reconnoitring on her
own with the object of bringing more grist to her mill. Mr Bloom, own with the object of bringing more grist to her mill. Mr Bloom,
scarcely knowing which way to look, turned away on the moment flusterfied scarcely knowing which way to look, turned away on the moment flusterfied
but outwardly calm, and, picking up from the table the pink sheet of the but outwardly calm, and, picking up from the table the pink sheet of the
Abbey street organ which the jarvey, if such he was, had laid aside, he Abbey street organ which the jarvey, if such he was, had laid aside, he
picked it up and looked at the pink of the paper though why pink. His picked it up and looked at the pink of the paper though why pink. His
reason for so doing was he recognised on the moment round the door the reason for so doing was he recognised on the moment round the door the
same face he had caught a fleeting glimpse of that afternoon on Ormond same face he had caught a fleeting glimpse of that afternoon on Ormond
quay, the partially idiotic female, namely, of the lane who knew the lady quay, the partially idiotic female, namely, of the lane who knew the lady
in the brown costume does be with you (Mrs B.) and begged the chance of in the brown costume does be with you (Mrs B.) and begged the chance of
his washing. Also why washing which seemed rather vague than not, your his washing. Also why washing which seemed rather vague than not, your
washing. Still candour compelled him to admit he had washed his wife's washing. Still candour compelled him to admit he had washed his wife's
undergarments when soiled in Holles street and women would and did too a undergarments when soiled in Holles street and women would and did too a
man's similar garments initialled with Bewley and Draper's marking ink man's similar garments initialled with Bewley and Draper's marking ink
(hers were, that is) if they really loved him, that is to say, love me, (hers were, that is) if they really loved him, that is to say, love me,
love my dirty shirt. Still just then, being on tenterhooks, he desired love my dirty shirt. Still just then, being on tenterhooks, he desired
the female's room more than her company so it came as a genuine relief the female's room more than her company so it came as a genuine relief
when the keeper made her a rude sign to take herself off. Round the side when the keeper made her a rude sign to take herself off. Round the side
of the Evening Telegraph he just caught a fleeting glimpse of her face of the Evening Telegraph he just caught a fleeting glimpse of her face
round the side of the door with a kind of demented glassy grin showing round the side of the door with a kind of demented glassy grin showing
that she was not exactly all there, viewing with evident amusement the that she was not exactly all there, viewing with evident amusement the
group of gazers round skipper Murphy's nautical chest and then there was group of gazers round skipper Murphy's nautical chest and then there was
no more of her. no more of her.
--The gunboat, the keeper said. --The gunboat, the keeper said.
--It beats me, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen, medically I am speaking, how --It beats me, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen, medically I am speaking, how
a wretched creature like that from the Lock hospital reeking with disease a wretched creature like that from the Lock hospital reeking with disease
can be barefaced enough to solicit or how any man in his sober senses, if can be barefaced enough to solicit or how any man in his sober senses, if
he values his health in the least. Unfortunate creature! Of course I he values his health in the least. Unfortunate creature! Of course I
suppose some man is ultimately responsible for her condition. Still no suppose some man is ultimately responsible for her condition. Still no
matter what the cause is from ... matter what the cause is from ...
Stephen had not noticed her and shrugged his shoulders, merely remarking: Stephen had not noticed her and shrugged his shoulders, merely remarking:
--In this country people sell much more than she ever had and do a --In this country people sell much more than she ever had and do a
roaring trade. Fear not them that sell the body but have not power to buy roaring trade. Fear not them that sell the body but have not power to buy
the soul. She is a bad merchant. She buys dear and sells cheap. the soul. She is a bad merchant. She buys dear and sells cheap.
The elder man, though not by any manner of means an old maid or a prude, The elder man, though not by any manner of means an old maid or a prude,
said it was nothing short of a crying scandal that ought to be put a stop said it was nothing short of a crying scandal that ought to be put a stop
to INSTANTER to say that women of that stamp (quite apart from any to INSTANTER to say that women of that stamp (quite apart from any
oldmaidish squeamishness on the subject), a necessary evil, w ere not oldmaidish squeamishness on the subject), a necessary evil, w ere not
licensed and medically inspected by the proper authorities, a thing, he licensed and medically inspected by the proper authorities, a thing, he
could truthfully state, he, as a PATERFAMILIAS, was a stalwart advocate could truthfully state, he, as a PATERFAMILIAS, was a stalwart advocate
of from the very first start. Whoever embarked on a policy of the sort, of from the very first start. Whoever embarked on a policy of the sort,
he said, and ventilated the matter thoroughly would confer a lasting boon he said, and ventilated the matter thoroughly would confer a lasting boon
on everybody concerned. on everybody concerned.
--You as a good catholic, he observed, talking of body and soul, believe --You as a good catholic, he observed, talking of body and soul, believe
in the soul. Or do you mean the intelligence, the brainpower as such, as in the soul. Or do you mean the intelligence, the brainpower as such, as
distinct from any outside object, the table, let us say, that cup. I distinct from any outside object, the table, let us say, that cup. I
believe in that myself because it has been explained by competent men as believe in that myself because it has been explained by competent men as
the convolutions of the grey matter. Otherwise we would never have such the convolutions of the grey matter. Otherwise we would never have such
inventions as X rays, for instance. Do you? inventions as X rays, for instance. Do you?
Thus cornered, Stephen had to make a superhuman effort of memory to try Thus cornered, Stephen had to make a superhuman effort of memory to try
and concentrate and remember before he could say: and concentrate and remember before he could say:
--They tell me on the best authority it is a simple substance and --They tell me on the best authority it is a simple substance and
therefore incorruptible. It would be immortal, I understand, but for the therefore incorruptible. It would be immortal, I understand, but for the
possibility of its annihilation by its First Cause Who, from all I can possibility of its annihilation by its First Cause Who, from all I can
hear, is quite capable of adding that to the number of His other hear, is quite capable of adding that to the number of His other
practical jokes, CORRUPTIO PER SE and CORRUPTIO PER ACCIDENS both being practical jokes, CORRUPTIO PER SE and CORRUPTIO PER ACCIDENS both being
excluded by court etiquette. excluded by court etiquette.
Mr Bloom thoroughly acquiesced in the general gist of this though the Mr Bloom thoroughly acquiesced in the general gist of this though the
mystical finesse involved was a bit out of his sublunary depth still he mystical finesse involved was a bit out of his sublunary depth still he
felt bound to enter a demurrer on the head of simple, promptly rejoining: felt bound to enter a demurrer on the head of simple, promptly rejoining:
--Simple? I shouldn't think that is the proper word. Of course, I grant --Simple? I shouldn't think that is the proper word. Of course, I grant
you, to concede a point, you do knock across a simple soul once in a blue you, to concede a point, you do knock across a simple soul once in a blue
moon. But what I am anxious to arrive at is it is one thing for instance moon. But what I am anxious to arrive at is it is one thing for instance
to invent those rays Rontgen did or the telescope like Edison, though I to invent those rays Rontgen did or the telescope like Edison, though I
believe it was before his time Galileo was the man, I mean, and the same believe it was before his time Galileo was the man, I mean, and the same
applies to the laws, for example, of a farreaching natural phenomenon applies to the laws, for example, of a farreaching natural phenomenon
such as electricity but it's a horse of quite another colour to say you such as electricity but it's a horse of quite another colour to say you
believe in the existence of a supernatural God. believe in the existence of a supernatural God.
