out of her mouth her tea, choking in tea and laughter, coughing with out of her mouth her tea, choking in tea and laughter, coughing with
choking, crying: choking, crying:
Gob, he's like Lanty MacHale's goat that'd go a piece of the road with Gob, he's like Lanty MacHale's goat that'd go a piece of the road with
every one. every one.
--Well, it's a fact, says John Wyse. And there's the man now that'll tell --Well, it's a fact, says John Wyse. And there's the man now that'll tell
The keys, obedient, rose higher, told, faltered, confessed, confused. The keys, obedient, rose higher, told, faltered, confessed, confused.
Up stage strode Father Cowley. Up stage strode Father Cowley.
--Here, Simon, I'll accompany you, he said. Get up. --Here, Simon, I'll accompany you, he said. Get up.
By Graham Lemon's pineapple rock, by Elvery's elephant jingly By Graham Lemon's pineapple rock, by Elvery's elephant jingly
    O, won't we have a merry time,     O, won't we have a merry time,
    Drinking whisky, beer and wine!     Drinking whisky, beer and wine!
PRIVATE CARR: Here. What are you saying about my king? PRIVATE CARR: Here. What are you saying about my king?
STEPHEN: (THROWS UP HIS HANDS) O, this is too monotonous! Nothing. He STEPHEN: (THROWS UP HIS HANDS) O, this is too monotonous! Nothing. He
wants my money and my life, though want must be his master, for some wants my money and my life, though want must be his master, for some
brutish empire of his. Money I haven't. (HE SEARCHES HIS POCKETS VAGUELY) brutish empire of his. Money I haven't. (HE SEARCHES HIS POCKETS VAGUELY)
GAVE IT TO SOMEONE. GAVE IT TO SOMEONE.
PRIVATE CARR: Who wants your bleeding money? PRIVATE CARR: Who wants your bleeding money?
STEPHEN: (TRIES TO MOVE OFF) Will someone tell me where I am least likely STEPHEN: (TRIES TO MOVE OFF) Will someone tell me where I am least likely
to meet these necessary evils? CA SE VOIT AUSSI A PARIS. Not that I ... to meet these necessary evils? CA SE VOIT AUSSI A PARIS. Not that I ...
But, by Saint Patrick ...! But, by Saint Patrick ...!
(THE WOMEN'S HEADS COALESCE. OLD GUMMY GRANNY IN SUGARLOAF HAT APPEARS (THE WOMEN'S HEADS COALESCE. OLD GUMMY GRANNY IN SUGARLOAF HAT APPEARS
He asked me to. He asked me to.
--Charley, Hynes said writing. I know. He was on the FREEMAN once. --Charley, Hynes said writing. I know. He was on the FREEMAN once.
So he was before he got the job in the morgue under Louis Byrne. So he was before he got the job in the morgue under Louis Byrne.
Good idea a postmortem for doctors. Find out what they imagine they Good idea a postmortem for doctors. Find out what they imagine they
know. He died of a Tuesday. Got the run. Levanted with the cash of a few know. He died of a Tuesday. Got the run. Levanted with the cash of a few
ads. Charley, you're my darling. That was why he asked me to. O well, ads. Charley, you're my darling. That was why he asked me to. O well,
does no harm. I saw to that, M'Coy. Thanks, old chap: much obliged. does no harm. I saw to that, M'Coy. Thanks, old chap: much obliged.
Leave him under an obligation: costs nothing. Leave him under an obligation: costs nothing.
--And tell us, Hynes said, do you know that fellow in the, fellow was --And tell us, Hynes said, do you know that fellow in the, fellow was
over there in the ... over there in the ...
He looked around. He looked around.
--Macintosh. Yes, I saw him, Mr Bloom said. Where is he now? --Macintosh. Yes, I saw him, Mr Bloom said. Where is he now?
--M'Intosh, Hynes said scribbling. I don't know who he is. Is that --M'Intosh, Hynes said scribbling. I don't know who he is. Is that
his name? his name?
He moved away, looking about him. He moved away, looking about him.
--No, Mr Bloom began, turning and stopping. I say, Hynes! --No, Mr Bloom began, turning and stopping. I say, Hynes!
Didn't hear. What? Where has he disappeared to? Not a sign. Well of Didn't hear. What? Where has he disappeared to? Not a sign. Well of
all the. Has anybody here seen? Kay ee double ell. Become invisible. Good all the. Has anybody here seen? Kay ee double ell. Become invisible. Good
Lord, what became of him? Lord, what became of him?
A seventh gravedigger came beside Mr Bloom to take up an idle spade. A seventh gravedigger came beside Mr Bloom to take up an idle spade.
--O, excuse me! --O, excuse me!
He stepped aside nimbly. He stepped aside nimbly.
Clay, brown, damp, began to be seen in the hole. It rose. Nearly over. Clay, brown, damp, began to be seen in the hole. It rose. Nearly over.
A mound of damp clods rose more, rose, and the gravediggers rested their A mound of damp clods rose more, rose, and the gravediggers rested their
spades. All uncovered again for a few instants. The boy propped his wreath spades. All uncovered again for a few instants. The boy propped his wreath
against a corner: the brother-in-law his on a lump. The gravediggers put against a corner: the brother-in-law his on a lump. The gravediggers put
are not going to get me this innings. Warm beds: warm fullblooded life. are not going to get me this innings. Warm beds: warm fullblooded life.
Martin Cunningham emerged from a sidepath, talking gravely. Martin Cunningham emerged from a sidepath, talking gravely.
Solicitor, I think. I know his face. Menton, John Henry, solicitor, Solicitor, I think. I know his face. Menton, John Henry, solicitor,
commissioner for oaths and affidavits. Dignam used to be in his office. commissioner for oaths and affidavits. Dignam used to be in his office.
Mat Dillon's long ago. Jolly Mat. Convivial evenings. Cold fowl, cigars, Mat Dillon's long ago. Jolly Mat. Convivial evenings. Cold fowl, cigars,
the Tantalus glasses. Heart of gold really. Yes, Menton. Got his rag out the Tantalus glasses. Heart of gold really. Yes, Menton. Got his rag out
that evening on the bowlinggreen because I sailed inside him. Pure fluke that evening on the bowlinggreen because I sailed inside him. Pure fluke
of mine: the bias. Why he took such a rooted dislike to me. Hate at first of mine: the bias. Why he took such a rooted dislike to me. Hate at first
sight. Molly and Floey Dillon linked under the lilactree, laughing. sight. Molly and Floey Dillon linked under the lilactree, laughing.
Fellow always like that, mortified if women are by. Fellow always like that, mortified if women are by.
Got a dinge in the side of his hat. Carriage probably. Got a dinge in the side of his hat. Carriage probably.
--Excuse me, sir, Mr Bloom said beside them. --Excuse me, sir, Mr Bloom said beside them.
They stopped. They stopped.
--Your hat is a little crushed, Mr Bloom said pointing. --Your hat is a little crushed, Mr Bloom said pointing.
John Henry Menton stared at him for an instant without moving. John Henry Menton stared at him for an instant without moving.
--There, Martin Cunningham helped, pointing also. John Henry Menton took --There, Martin Cunningham helped, pointing also. John Henry Menton took
off his hat, bulged out the dinge and smoothed the nap with care on his off his hat, bulged out the dinge and smoothed the nap with care on his
coatsleeve. He clapped the hat on his head again. coatsleeve. He clapped the hat on his head again.
--It's all right now, Martin Cunningham said. --It's all right now, Martin Cunningham said.
Martha. Steered by an umbrella sword to the footlights: Mario the tenor. Martha. Steered by an umbrella sword to the footlights: Mario the tenor.
--Or like Mario, Mr Bloom said. --Or like Mario, Mr Bloom said.
--Yes, Red Murray agreed. But Mario was said to be the picture of Our --Yes, Red Murray agreed. But Mario was said to be the picture of Our
Saviour. Saviour.
Jesusmario with rougy cheeks, doublet and spindle legs. Hand on his Jesusmario with rougy cheeks, doublet and spindle legs. Hand on his
heart. In MARTHA. heart. In MARTHA.
    CO-OME THOU LOST ONE,     CO-OME THOU LOST ONE,
    CO-OME THOU DEAR ONE!     CO-OME THOU DEAR ONE!
    THE CROZIER AND THE PEN     THE CROZIER AND THE PEN
--His grace phoned down twice this morning, Red Murray said gravely. --His grace phoned down twice this morning, Red Murray said gravely.
They watched the knees, legs, boots vanish. Neck. They watched the knees, legs, boots vanish. Neck.
A telegram boy stepped in nimbly, threw an envelope on the counter A telegram boy stepped in nimbly, threw an envelope on the counter
and stepped off posthaste with a word: and stepped off posthaste with a word:
--FREEMAN! --FREEMAN!
Mr Bloom said slowly: Mr Bloom said slowly:
--Well, he is one of our saviours also. --Well, he is one of our saviours also.
A meek smile accompanied him as he lifted the counterflap, as he A meek smile accompanied him as he lifted the counterflap, as he
passed in through a sidedoor and along the warm dark stairs and passage, passed in through a sidedoor and along the warm dark stairs and passage,
along the now reverberating boards. But will he save the circulation? along the now reverberating boards. But will he save the circulation?
Thumping. Thumping. Thumping. Thumping.
He pushed in the glass swingdoor and entered, stepping over strewn He pushed in the glass swingdoor and entered, stepping over strewn
packing paper. Through a lane of clanking drums he made his way towards packing paper. Through a lane of clanking drums he made his way towards
and reflected upon the historic story which had aroused extraordinary and reflected upon the historic story which had aroused extraordinary
interest at the time when the facts, to make matters worse, were made interest at the time when the facts, to make matters worse, were made
public with the usual affectionate letters that passed between them full public with the usual affectionate letters that passed between them full
of sweet nothings. First it was strictly Platonic till nature intervened of sweet nothings. First it was strictly Platonic till nature intervened
and an attachment sprang up between them till bit by bit matters came to and an attachment sprang up between them till bit by bit matters came to
a climax and the matter became the talk of the town till the staggering a climax and the matter became the talk of the town till the staggering
blow came as a welcome intelligence to not a few evildisposed, however, blow came as a welcome intelligence to not a few evildisposed, however,
who were resolved upon encompassing his downfall though the thing was who were resolved upon encompassing his downfall though the thing was
give a shite anyway so long as I get a job, even as a crossing sweeper. give a shite anyway so long as I get a job, even as a crossing sweeper.
Subsequently being not quite so down in the mouth after the two and six Subsequently being not quite so down in the mouth after the two and six
he got he informed Stephen about a fellow by the name of Bags Comisky he got he informed Stephen about a fellow by the name of Bags Comisky
that he said Stephen knew well out of Fullam's, the shipchandler's, that he said Stephen knew well out of Fullam's, the shipchandler's,
bookkeeper there that used to be often round in Nagle's back with O'Mara bookkeeper there that used to be often round in Nagle's back with O'Mara
and a little chap with a stutter the name of Tighe. Anyhow he was lagged and a little chap with a stutter the name of Tighe. Anyhow he was lagged
the night before last and fined ten bob for a drunk and disorderly and the night before last and fined ten bob for a drunk and disorderly and
refusing to go with the constable. refusing to go with the constable.
Mr Bloom in the meanwhile kept dodging about in the vicinity of the Mr Bloom in the meanwhile kept dodging about in the vicinity of the
cobblestones near the brazier of coke in front of the corporation cobblestones near the brazier of coke in front of the corporation
watchman's sentrybox who evidently a glutton for work, it struck him, was watchman's sentrybox who evidently a glutton for work, it struck him, was
having a quiet forty winks for all intents and purposes on his own having a quiet forty winks for all intents and purposes on his own
private account while Dublin slept. He threw an odd eye at the same time private account while Dublin slept. He threw an odd eye at the same time
now and then at Stephen's anything but immaculately attired interlocutor now and then at Stephen's anything but immaculately attired interlocutor
as if he had seen that nobleman somewhere or other though where he was as if he had seen that nobleman somewhere or other though where he was
not in a position to truthfully state nor had he the remotest idea when. not in a position to truthfully state nor had he the remotest idea when.
Being a levelheaded individual who could give points to not a few in Being a levelheaded individual who could give points to not a few in
point of shrewd observation he also remarked on his very dilapidated hat point of shrewd observation he also remarked on his very dilapidated hat
and slouchy wearing apparel generally testifying to a chronic and slouchy wearing apparel generally testifying to a chronic
impecuniosity. Palpably he was one of his hangerson but for the matter of impecuniosity. Palpably he was one of his hangerson but for the matter of
that it was merely a question of one preying on his nextdoor neighbour that it was merely a question of one preying on his nextdoor neighbour
all round, in every deep, so to put it, a deeper depth and for the matter all round, in every deep, so to put it, a deeper depth and for the matter
of that if the man in the street chanced to be in the dock himself penal of that if the man in the street chanced to be in the dock himself penal
servitude with or without the option of a fine would be a very rara avis servitude with or without the option of a fine would be a very rara avis
altogether. In any case he had a consummate amount of cool assurance altogether. In any case he had a consummate amount of cool assurance
intercepting people at that hour of the night or morning. Pretty thick intercepting people at that hour of the night or morning. Pretty thick
that was certainly. that was certainly.
The pair parted company and Stephen rejoined Mr Bloom who, with his The pair parted company and Stephen rejoined Mr Bloom who, with his
practised eye, was not without perceiving that he had succumbed to the practised eye, was not without perceiving that he had succumbed to the
blandiloquence of the other parasite. Alluding to the encounter he said, blandiloquence of the other parasite. Alluding to the encounter he said,
laughingly, Stephen, that is: laughingly, Stephen, that is:
--He is down on his luck. He asked me to ask you to ask somebody named --He is down on his luck. He asked me to ask you to ask somebody named
Boylan, a billsticker, to give him a job as a sandwichman. Boylan, a billsticker, to give him a job as a sandwichman.
At this intelligence, in which he seemingly evinced little interest, Mr At this intelligence, in which he seemingly evinced little interest, Mr
Bloom gazed abstractedly for the space of a half a second or so in the Bloom gazed abstractedly for the space of a half a second or so in the
direction of a bucketdredger, rejoicing in the farfamed name of Eblana, direction of a bucketdredger, rejoicing in the farfamed name of Eblana,
moored alongside Customhouse quay and quite possibly out of repair, moored alongside Customhouse quay and quite possibly out of repair,
whereupon he observed evasively: whereupon he observed evasively:
--Everybody gets their own ration of luck, they say. Now you mention it --Everybody gets their own ration of luck, they say. Now you mention it
his face was familiar to me. But, leaving that for the moment, how much his face was familiar to me. But, leaving that for the moment, how much
did you part with, he queried, if I am not too inquisitive? did you part with, he queried, if I am not too inquisitive?
--Half a crown, Stephen responded. I daresay he needs it to sleep --Half a crown, Stephen responded. I daresay he needs it to sleep
somewhere. somewhere.
--Needs! Mr Bloom ejaculated, professing not the least surprise at the --Needs! Mr Bloom ejaculated, professing not the least surprise at the
intelligence, I can quite credit the assertion and I guarantee he intelligence, I can quite credit the assertion and I guarantee he
invariably does. Everyone according to his needs or everyone according to invariably does. Everyone according to his needs or everyone according to
his deeds. But, talking about things in general, where, added he with a his deeds. But, talking about things in general, where, added he with a
smile, will you sleep yourself? Walking to Sandycove is out of the smile, will you sleep yourself? Walking to Sandycove is out of the
question. And even supposing you did you won't get in after what occurred question. And even supposing you did you won't get in after what occurred
at Westland Row station. Simply fag out there for nothing. I don't mean at Westland Row station. Simply fag out there for nothing. I don't mean
to presume to dictate to you in the slightest degree but why did you to presume to dictate to you in the slightest degree but why did you
leave your father's house? leave your father's house?
--To seek misfortune, was Stephen's answer. --To seek misfortune, was Stephen's answer.
--I met your respected father on a recent occasion, Mr Bloom --I met your respected father on a recent occasion, Mr Bloom
diplomatically returned, today in fact, or to be strictly accurate, on diplomatically returned, today in fact, or to be strictly accurate, on
yesterday. Where does he live at present? I gathered in the course of yesterday. Where does he live at present? I gathered in the course of
conversation that he had moved. conversation that he had moved.
--I believe he is in Dublin somewhere, Stephen answered unconcernedly. --I believe he is in Dublin somewhere, Stephen answered unconcernedly.
Why? Why?
--A gifted man, Mr Bloom said of Mr Dedalus senior, in more respects than --A gifted man, Mr Bloom said of Mr Dedalus senior, in more respects than
one and a born RACONTEUR if ever there was one. He takes great pride, one and a born RACONTEUR if ever there was one. He takes great pride,
quite legitimate, out of you. You could go back perhaps, he hasarded, quite legitimate, out of you. You could go back perhaps, he hasarded,
still thinking of the very unpleasant scene at Westland Row terminus when still thinking of the very unpleasant scene at Westland Row terminus when
it was perfectly evident that the other two, Mulligan, that is, and that it was perfectly evident that the other two, Mulligan, that is, and that
English tourist friend of his, who eventually euchred their third English tourist friend of his, who eventually euchred their third
companion, were patently trying as if the whole bally station belonged to companion, were patently trying as if the whole bally station belonged to
them to give Stephen the slip in the confusion, which they did. them to give Stephen the slip in the confusion, which they did.
There was no response forthcoming to the suggestion however, such as it There was no response forthcoming to the suggestion however, such as it
was, Stephen's mind's eye being too busily engaged in repicturing his was, Stephen's mind's eye being too busily engaged in repicturing his
family hearth the last time he saw it with his sister Dilly sitting by family hearth the last time he saw it with his sister Dilly sitting by
the ingle, her hair hanging down, waiting for some weak Trinidad shell the ingle, her hair hanging down, waiting for some weak Trinidad shell
cocoa that was in the sootcoated kettle to be done so that she and he cocoa that was in the sootcoated kettle to be done so that she and he
could drink it with the oatmealwater for milk after the Friday herrings could drink it with the oatmealwater for milk after the Friday herrings
they had eaten at two a penny with an egg apiece for Maggy, Boody and they had eaten at two a penny with an egg apiece for Maggy, Boody and
Katey, the cat meanwhile under the mangle devouring a mess of eggshells Katey, the cat meanwhile under the mangle devouring a mess of eggshells
and charred fish heads and bones on a square of brown paper, in and charred fish heads and bones on a square of brown paper, in
accordance with the third precept of the church to fast and abstain on accordance with the third precept of the church to fast and abstain on
the days commanded, it being quarter tense or if not, ember days or the days commanded, it being quarter tense or if not, ember days or
something like that. something like that.
--No, Mr Bloom repeated again, I wouldn't personally repose much trust in --No, Mr Bloom repeated again, I wouldn't personally repose much trust in
that boon companion of yours who contributes the humorous element, Dr that boon companion of yours who contributes the humorous element, Dr
Mulligan, as a guide, philosopher and friend if I were in your shoes. He Mulligan, as a guide, philosopher and friend if I were in your shoes. He
knows which side his bread is buttered on though in all probability he knows which side his bread is buttered on though in all probability he
never realised what it is to be without regular meals. Of course you never realised what it is to be without regular meals. Of course you
didn't notice as much as I did. But it wouldn't occasion me the least didn't notice as much as I did. But it wouldn't occasion me the least
surprise to learn that a pinch of tobacco or some narcotic was put in surprise to learn that a pinch of tobacco or some narcotic was put in
your drink for some ulterior object. your drink for some ulterior object.
He understood however from all he heard that Dr Mulligan was a versatile He understood however from all he heard that Dr Mulligan was a versatile
allround man, by no means confined to medicine only, who was rapidly allround man, by no means confined to medicine only, who was rapidly
coming to the fore in his line and, if the report was verified, bade fair coming to the fore in his line and, if the report was verified, bade fair
to enjoy a flourishing practice in the not too distant future as a tony to enjoy a flourishing practice in the not too distant future as a tony
medical practitioner drawing a handsome fee for his services in addition medical practitioner drawing a handsome fee for his services in addition
to which professional status his rescue of that man from certain drowning to which professional status his rescue of that man from certain drowning
by artificial respiration and what they call first aid at Skerries, or by artificial respiration and what they call first aid at Skerries, or
Malahide was it?, was, he was bound to admit, an exceedingly plucky deed Malahide was it?, was, he was bound to admit, an exceedingly plucky deed
which he could not too highly praise, so that frankly he was utterly at a which he could not too highly praise, so that frankly he was utterly at a
loss to fathom what earthly reason could be at the back of it except he loss to fathom what earthly reason could be at the back of it except he
put it down to sheer cussedness or jealousy, pure and simple. put it down to sheer cussedness or jealousy, pure and simple.
--Except it simply amounts to one thing and he is what they call picking --Except it simply amounts to one thing and he is what they call picking
your brains, he ventured to throw o.ut. your brains, he ventured to throw o.ut.
The guarded glance of half solicitude half curiosity augmented by The guarded glance of half solicitude half curiosity augmented by
friendliness which he gave at Stephen's at present morose expression of friendliness which he gave at Stephen's at present morose expression of
features did not throw a flood of light, none at all in fact on the features did not throw a flood of light, none at all in fact on the
problem as to whether he had let himself be badly bamboozled to judge by problem as to whether he had let himself be badly bamboozled to judge by
two or three lowspirited remarks he let drop or the other way about saw two or three lowspirited remarks he let drop or the other way about saw
through the affair and for some reason or other best known to himself through the affair and for some reason or other best known to himself
allowed matters to more or less. Grinding poverty did have that effect allowed matters to more or less. Grinding poverty did have that effect
and he more than conjectured that, high educational abilities though he and he more than conjectured that, high educational abilities though he
possessed, he experienced no little difficulty in making both ends meet. possessed, he experienced no little difficulty in making both ends meet.
Adjacent to the men's public urinal they perceived an icecream car round Adjacent to the men's public urinal they perceived an icecream car round
which a group of presumably Italians in heated altercation were getting which a group of presumably Italians in heated altercation were getting
rid of voluble expressions in their vivacious language in a particularly rid of voluble expressions in their vivacious language in a particularly
animated way, there being some little differences between the parties. animated way, there being some little differences between the parties.
--PUTTANA MADONNA, CHE CI DIA I QUATTRINI! HO RAGIONE? CULO ROTTO! --PUTTANA MADONNA, CHE CI DIA I QUATTRINI! HO RAGIONE? CULO ROTTO!
--INTENDIAMOCI. MEZZO SOVRANO PIU ... --INTENDIAMOCI. MEZZO SOVRANO PIU ...
--DICE LUI, PERO! --DICE LUI, PERO!
--MEZZO. --MEZZO.
--He's Irish, the seaman bold affirmed, staring still in much the same --He's Irish, the seaman bold affirmed, staring still in much the same
way and nodding. All Irish. way and nodding. All Irish.
--All too Irish, Stephen rejoined. --All too Irish, Stephen rejoined.
As for Mr Bloom he could neither make head or tail of the whole business As for Mr Bloom he could neither make head or tail of the whole business
and he was just asking himself what possible connection when the sailor and he was just asking himself what possible connection when the sailor
of his own accord turned to the other occupants of the shelter with the of his own accord turned to the other occupants of the shelter with the
remark: remark:
--I seen him shoot two eggs off two bottles at fifty yards over his --I seen him shoot two eggs off two bottles at fifty yards over his
shoulder. The lefthand dead shot. shoulder. The lefthand dead shot.
Though he was slightly hampered by an occasional stammer and his gestures Though he was slightly hampered by an occasional stammer and his gestures
being also clumsy as it was still he did his best to explain. being also clumsy as it was still he did his best to explain.
--Bottles out there, say. Fifty yards measured. Eggs on the bottles. --Bottles out there, say. Fifty yards measured. Eggs on the bottles.
Cocks his gun over his shoulder. Aims. Cocks his gun over his shoulder. Aims.
He turned his body half round, shut up his right eye completely. Then he He turned his body half round, shut up his right eye completely. Then he
screwed his features up someway sideways and glared out into the night screwed his features up someway sideways and glared out into the night
with an unprepossessing cast of countenance. with an unprepossessing cast of countenance.
--Pom! he then shouted once. --Pom! he then shouted once.
The entire audience waited, anticipating an additional detonation, there The entire audience waited, anticipating an additional detonation, there
being still a further egg. being still a further egg.
--Pom! he shouted twice. --Pom! he shouted twice.
Egg two evidently demolished, he nodded and winked, adding Egg two evidently demolished, he nodded and winked, adding
bloodthirstily: bloodthirstily:
  --BUFFALO BILL SHOOTS TO KILL,   --BUFFALO BILL SHOOTS TO KILL,
    NEVER MISSED NOR HE NEVER WILL.     NEVER MISSED NOR HE NEVER WILL.
A silence ensued till Mr Bloom for agreeableness' sake just felt like A silence ensued till Mr Bloom for agreeableness' sake just felt like
asking him whether it was for a marksmanship competition like the Bisley. asking him whether it was for a marksmanship competition like the Bisley.
--Beg pardon, the sailor said. --Beg pardon, the sailor said.
--Long ago? Mr Bloom pursued without flinching a hairsbreadth. --Long ago? Mr Bloom pursued without flinching a hairsbreadth.
--Why, the sailor replied, relaxing to a certain extent under the magic --Why, the sailor replied, relaxing to a certain extent under the magic
influence of diamond cut diamond, it might be a matter of ten years. He influence of diamond cut diamond, it might be a matter of ten years. He
toured the wide world with Hengler's Royal Circus. I seen him do that in toured the wide world with Hengler's Royal Circus. I seen him do that in
Stockholm. Stockholm.
--Curious coincidence, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen unobtrusively. --Curious coincidence, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen unobtrusively.
--Murphy's my name, the sailor continued. D. B. Murphy of Carrigaloe. --Murphy's my name, the sailor continued. D. B. Murphy of Carrigaloe.
Know where that is? Know where that is?
--Queenstown harbour, Stephen replied. --Queenstown harbour, Stephen replied.
--That's right, the sailor said. Fort Camden and Fort Carlisle. That's --That's right, the sailor said. Fort Camden and Fort Carlisle. That's
where I hails from. I belongs there. That's where I hails from. My little where I hails from. I belongs there. That's where I hails from. My little
woman's down there. She's waiting for me, I know. FOR ENGLAND, HOME AND woman's down there. She's waiting for me, I know. FOR ENGLAND, HOME AND
BEAUTY. She's my own true wife I haven't seen for seven years now, BEAUTY. She's my own true wife I haven't seen for seven years now,
sailing about. sailing about.
Mr Bloom could easily picture his advent on this scene, the homecoming to Mr Bloom could easily picture his advent on this scene, the homecoming to
the mariner's roadside shieling after having diddled Davy Jones, a rainy the mariner's roadside shieling after having diddled Davy Jones, a rainy
night with a blind moon. Across the world for a wife. Quite a number of night with a blind moon. Across the world for a wife. Quite a number of
stories there were on that particular Alice Ben Bolt topic, Enoch Arden stories there were on that particular Alice Ben Bolt topic, Enoch Arden
and Rip van Winkle and does anybody hereabouts remember Caoc O'Leary, a and Rip van Winkle and does anybody hereabouts remember Caoc O'Leary, a
favourite and most trying declamation piece by the way of poor John Casey favourite and most trying declamation piece by the way of poor John Casey
and a bit of perfect poetry in its own small way. Never about the runaway and a bit of perfect poetry in its own small way. Never about the runaway
wife coming back, however much devoted to the absentee. The face at the wife coming back, however much devoted to the absentee. The face at the
window! Judge of his astonishment when he finally did breast the tape and window! Judge of his astonishment when he finally did breast the tape and
the awful truth dawned upon him anent his better half, wrecked in his the awful truth dawned upon him anent his better half, wrecked in his
affections. You little expected me but I've come to stay and make a fresh affections. You little expected me but I've come to stay and make a fresh
start. There she sits, a grasswidow, at the selfsame fireside. Believes start. There she sits, a grasswidow, at the selfsame fireside. Believes
me dead, rocked in the cradle of the deep. And there sits uncle Chubb or me dead, rocked in the cradle of the deep. And there sits uncle Chubb or
Tomkin, as the case might be, the publican of the Crown and Anchor, in Tomkin, as the case might be, the publican of the Crown and Anchor, in
shirtsleeves, eating rumpsteak and onions. No chair for father. Broo! The shirtsleeves, eating rumpsteak and onions. No chair for father. Broo! The
wind! Her brandnew arrival is on her knee, POST MORTEM child. With a high wind! Her brandnew arrival is on her knee, POST MORTEM child. With a high
ro! and a randy ro! and my galloping tearing tandy, O! Bow to the ro! and a randy ro! and my galloping tearing tandy, O! Bow to the
inevitable. Grin and bear it. I remain with much love your brokenhearted inevitable. Grin and bear it. I remain with much love your brokenhearted
husband D B Murphy. husband D B Murphy.
The sailor, who scarcely seemed to be a Dublin resident, turned to one of The sailor, who scarcely seemed to be a Dublin resident, turned to one of
the jarvies with the request: the jarvies with the request:
--You don't happen to have such a thing as a spare chaw about you? --You don't happen to have such a thing as a spare chaw about you?
The jarvey addressed as it happened had not but the keeper took a die of The jarvey addressed as it happened had not but the keeper took a die of
plug from his good jacket hanging on a nail and the desired object was plug from his good jacket hanging on a nail and the desired object was
passed from hand to hand. passed from hand to hand.
--Thank you, the sailor said. --Thank you, the sailor said.
He deposited the quid in his gob and, chewing and with some slow He deposited the quid in his gob and, chewing and with some slow
stammers, proceeded: stammers, proceeded:
--We come up this morning eleven o'clock. The threemaster ROSEVEAN from --We come up this morning eleven o'clock. The threemaster ROSEVEAN from
Bridgwater with bricks. I shipped to get over. Paid off this afternoon. Bridgwater with bricks. I shipped to get over. Paid off this afternoon.
There's my discharge. See? D. B. Murphy. A. B. S. There's my discharge. See? D. B. Murphy. A. B. S.
In confirmation of which statement he extricated from an inside pocket In confirmation of which statement he extricated from an inside pocket
and handed to his neighbour a not very cleanlooking folded document. and handed to his neighbour a not very cleanlooking folded document.
--You must have seen a fair share of the world, the keeper remarked, --You must have seen a fair share of the world, the keeper remarked,
leaning on the counter. leaning on the counter.
--Why, the sailor answered upon reflection upon it, I've circumnavigated --Why, the sailor answered upon reflection upon it, I've circumnavigated
a bit since I first joined on. I was in the Red Sea. I was in China and a bit since I first joined on. I was in the Red Sea. I was in China and
North America and South America. We was chased by pirates one voyage. I North America and South America. We was chased by pirates one voyage. I
seen icebergs plenty, growlers. I was in Stockholm and the Black Sea, the seen icebergs plenty, growlers. I was in Stockholm and the Black Sea, the
Dardanelles under Captain Dalton, the best bloody man that ever scuttled Dardanelles under Captain Dalton, the best bloody man that ever scuttled
a ship. I seen Russia. GOSPODI POMILYOU. That's how the Russians prays. a ship. I seen Russia. GOSPODI POMILYOU. That's how the Russians prays.
--You seen queer sights, don't be talking, put in a jarvey. --You seen queer sights, don't be talking, put in a jarvey.
--Why, the sailor said, shifting his partially chewed plug. I seen queer --Why, the sailor said, shifting his partially chewed plug. I seen queer
things too, ups and downs. I seen a crocodile bite the fluke of an anchor things too, ups and downs. I seen a crocodile bite the fluke of an anchor
same as I chew that quid. same as I chew that quid.
He took out of his mouth the pulpy quid and, lodging it between his He took out of his mouth the pulpy quid and, lodging it between his
teeth, bit ferociously: teeth, bit ferociously:
--Khaan! Like that. And I seen maneaters in Peru that eats corpses and --Khaan! Like that. And I seen maneaters in Peru that eats corpses and
the livers of horses. Look here. Here they are. A friend of mine sent me. the livers of horses. Look here. Here they are. A friend of mine sent me.
He fumbled out a picture postcard from his inside pocket which seemed to He fumbled out a picture postcard from his inside pocket which seemed to
be in its way a species of repository and pushed it along the table. The be in its way a species of repository and pushed it along the table. The
printed matter on it stated: CHOZA DE INDIOS. BENI, BOLIVIA. printed matter on it stated: CHOZA DE INDIOS. BENI, BOLIVIA.
All focussed their attention at the scene exhibited, a group of savage All focussed their attention at the scene exhibited, a group of savage
women in striped loincloths, squatted, blinking, suckling, frowning, women in striped loincloths, squatted, blinking, suckling, frowning,
sleeping amid a swarm of infants (there must have been quite a score of sleeping amid a swarm of infants (there must have been quite a score of
them) outside some primitive shanties of osier. them) outside some primitive shanties of osier.
--Chews coca all day, the communicative tarpaulin added. Stomachs like --Chews coca all day, the communicative tarpaulin added. Stomachs like
breadgraters. Cuts off their diddies when they can't bear no more breadgraters. Cuts off their diddies when they can't bear no more
children. children.
See them sitting there stark ballocknaked eating a dead horse's liver See them sitting there stark ballocknaked eating a dead horse's liver
raw. raw.
His postcard proved a centre of attraction for Messrs the greenhorns for His postcard proved a centre of attraction for Messrs the greenhorns for
several minutes if not more. several minutes if not more.
--Know how to keep them off? he inquired generally. --Know how to keep them off? he inquired generally.
Nobody volunteering a statement he winked, saying: Nobody volunteering a statement he winked, saying:
--Glass. That boggles 'em. Glass. --Glass. That boggles 'em. Glass.
Mr Bloom, without evincing surprise, unostentatiously turned over the Mr Bloom, without evincing surprise, unostentatiously turned over the
card to peruse the partially obliterated address and postmark. It ran as card to peruse the partially obliterated address and postmark. It ran as
follows: TARJETA POSTAL, SENOR A BOUDIN, GALERIA BECCHE, SANTIAGO, CHILE. follows: TARJETA POSTAL, SENOR A BOUDIN, GALERIA BECCHE, SANTIAGO, CHILE.
There was no message evidently, as he took particular notice. Though not There was no message evidently, as he took particular notice. Though not
an implicit believer in the lurid story narrated (or the eggsniping an implicit believer in the lurid story narrated (or the eggsniping
transaction for that matter despite William Tell and the Lazarillo-Don transaction for that matter despite William Tell and the Lazarillo-Don
Cesar de Bazan incident depicted in MARITANA on which occasion the Cesar de Bazan incident depicted in MARITANA on which occasion the
former's ball passed through the latter's hat) having detected a former's ball passed through the latter's hat) having detected a
discrepancy between his name (assuming he was the person he represented discrepancy between his name (assuming he was the person he represented
himself to be and not sailing under false colours after having boxed the himself to be and not sailing under false colours after having boxed the
compass on the strict q.t. somewhere) and the fictitious addressee of the compass on the strict q.t. somewhere) and the fictitious addressee of the
missive which made him nourish some suspicions of our friend's BONA FIDES missive which made him nourish some suspicions of our friend's BONA FIDES
nevertheless it reminded him in a way of a longcherished plan he meant to nevertheless it reminded him in a way of a longcherished plan he meant to
one day realise some Wednesday or Saturday of travelling to London via one day realise some Wednesday or Saturday of travelling to London via
long sea not to say that he had ever travelled extensively to any great long sea not to say that he had ever travelled extensively to any great
extent but he was at heart a born adventurer though by a trick of fate he extent but he was at heart a born adventurer though by a trick of fate he
had consistently remained a landlubber except you call going to Holyhead had consistently remained a landlubber except you call going to Holyhead
which was his longest. Martin Cunningham frequently said he would work a which was his longest. Martin Cunningham frequently said he would work a
pass through Egan but some deuced hitch or other eternally cropped up pass through Egan but some deuced hitch or other eternally cropped up
with the net result that the scheme fell through. But even suppose it did with the net result that the scheme fell through. But even suppose it did
come to planking down the needful and breaking Boyd's heart it was not so come to planking down the needful and breaking Boyd's heart it was not so
dear, purse permitting, a few guineas at the outside considering the fare dear, purse permitting, a few guineas at the outside considering the fare
to Mullingar where he figured on going was five and six, there and back. to Mullingar where he figured on going was five and six, there and back.
The trip would benefit health on account of the bracing ozone and be in The trip would benefit health on account of the bracing ozone and be in
every way thoroughly pleasurable, especially for a chap whose liver was every way thoroughly pleasurable, especially for a chap whose liver was
out of order, seeing the different places along the route, Plymouth, out of order, seeing the different places along the route, Plymouth,
Falmouth, Southampton and so on culminating in an instructive tour of the Falmouth, Southampton and so on culminating in an instructive tour of the
sights of the great metropolis, the spectacle of our modern Babylon where sights of the great metropolis, the spectacle of our modern Babylon where
doubtless he would see the greatest improvement, tower, abbey, wealth of doubtless he would see the greatest improvement, tower, abbey, wealth of
Park lane to renew acquaintance with. Another thing just struck him as a Park lane to renew acquaintance with. Another thing just struck him as a
by no means bad notion was he might have a gaze around on the spot to see by no means bad notion was he might have a gaze around on the spot to see
about trying to make arrangements about a concert tour of summer music about trying to make arrangements about a concert tour of summer music
embracing the most prominent pleasure resorts, Margate with mixed bathing embracing the most prominent pleasure resorts, Margate with mixed bathing
and firstrate hydros and spas, Eastbourne, Scarborough, Margate and so and firstrate hydros and spas, Eastbourne, Scarborough, Margate and so
on, beautiful Bournemouth, the Channel islands and similar bijou spots, on, beautiful Bournemouth, the Channel islands and similar bijou spots,
which might prove highly remunerative. Not, of course, with a hole and which might prove highly remunerative. Not, of course, with a hole and
corner scratch company or local ladies on the job, witness Mrs C P M'Coy corner scratch company or local ladies on the job, witness Mrs C P M'Coy
type lend me your valise and I'll post you the ticket. No, something top type lend me your valise and I'll post you the ticket. No, something top
notch, an all star Irish caste, the Tweedy-Flower grand opera company notch, an all star Irish caste, the Tweedy-Flower grand opera company
with his own legal consort as leading lady as a sort of counterblast to with his own legal consort as leading lady as a sort of counterblast to
the Elster Grimes and Moody-Manners, perfectly simple matter and he was the Elster Grimes and Moody-Manners, perfectly simple matter and he was
quite sanguine of success, providing puffs in the local papers could be quite sanguine of success, providing puffs in the local papers could be
managed by some fellow with a bit of bounce who could pull the managed by some fellow with a bit of bounce who could pull the
indispensable wires and thus combine business with pleasure. But who? indispensable wires and thus combine business with pleasure. But who?
That was the rub.  Also, without being actually positive, it struck him a That was the rub.  Also, without being actually positive, it struck him a
great field was to be opened up in the line of opening up new routes to great field was to be opened up in the line of opening up new routes to
keep pace with the times APROPOS of the Fishguard-Rosslare route which, keep pace with the times APROPOS of the Fishguard-Rosslare route which,
it was mooted, was once more on the TAPIS in the circumlocution it was mooted, was once more on the TAPIS in the circumlocution
departments with the usual quantity of red tape and dillydallying of departments with the usual quantity of red tape and dillydallying of
effete fogeydom and dunderheads generally. A great opportunity there effete fogeydom and dunderheads generally. A great opportunity there
certainly was for push and enterprise to meet the travelling needs of the certainly was for push and enterprise to meet the travelling needs of the
public at large, the average man, i.e. Brown, Robinson and Co. public at large, the average man, i.e. Brown, Robinson and Co.
It was a subject of regret and absurd as well on the face of it and no It was a subject of regret and absurd as well on the face of it and no
small blame to our vaunted society that the man in the street, when the small blame to our vaunted society that the man in the street, when the
system really needed toning up, for the matter of a couple of paltry system really needed toning up, for the matter of a couple of paltry
pounds was debarred from seeing more of the world they lived in instead pounds was debarred from seeing more of the world they lived in instead
of being always and ever cooped up since my old stick-in-the-mud took me of being always and ever cooped up since my old stick-in-the-mud took me
for a wife. After all, hang it, they had their eleven and more humdrum for a wife. After all, hang it, they had their eleven and more humdrum
months of it and merited a radical change of VENUE after the grind of months of it and merited a radical change of VENUE after the grind of
city life in the summertime for choice when dame Nature is at her city life in the summertime for choice when dame Nature is at her
spectacular best constituting nothing short of a new lease of life. There spectacular best constituting nothing short of a new lease of life. There
were equally excellent opportunities for vacationists in the home island, were equally excellent opportunities for vacationists in the home island,
delightful sylvan spots for rejuvenation, offering a plethora of delightful sylvan spots for rejuvenation, offering a plethora of
attractions as well as a bracing tonic for the system in and around attractions as well as a bracing tonic for the system in and around
Dublin and its picturesque environs even, Poulaphouca to which there was Dublin and its picturesque environs even, Poulaphouca to which there was
a steamtram, but also farther away from the madding crowd in Wicklow, a steamtram, but also farther away from the madding crowd in Wicklow,
rightly termed the garden of Ireland, an ideal neighbourhood for elderly rightly termed the garden of Ireland, an ideal neighbourhood for elderly
wheelmen so long as it didn't come down, and in the wilds of Donegal wheelmen so long as it didn't come down, and in the wilds of Donegal
where if report spoke true the COUP D'OEIL was exceedingly grand though where if report spoke true the COUP D'OEIL was exceedingly grand though
the lastnamed locality was not easily getatable so that the influx of the lastnamed locality was not easily getatable so that the influx of
visitors was not as yet all that it might be considering the signal visitors was not as yet all that it might be considering the signal
benefits to be derived from it while Howth with its historic associations benefits to be derived from it while Howth with its historic associations
and otherwise, Silken Thomas, Grace O'Malley, George IV, rhododendrons and otherwise, Silken Thomas, Grace O'Malley, George IV, rhododendrons
several hundred feet above sealevel was a favourite haunt with all sorts several hundred feet above sealevel was a favourite haunt with all sorts
and conditions of men especially in the spring when young men's fancy, and conditions of men especially in the spring when young men's fancy,
though it had its own toll of deaths by falling off the cliffs by design though it had its own toll of deaths by falling off the cliffs by design
or accidentally, usually, by the way, on their left leg, it being only or accidentally, usually, by the way, on their left leg, it being only
about three quarters of an hour's run from the pillar. Because of course about three quarters of an hour's run from the pillar. Because of course
uptodate tourist travelling was as yet merely in its infancy, so to uptodate tourist travelling was as yet merely in its infancy, so to
speak, and the accommodation left much to be desired. Interesting to speak, and the accommodation left much to be desired. Interesting to
fathom it seemed to him from a motive of curiosity, pure and simple, was fathom it seemed to him from a motive of curiosity, pure and simple, was
whether it was the traffic that created the route or viceversa or the two whether it was the traffic that created the route or viceversa or the two
sides in fact. He turned back the other side of the card, picture, and sides in fact. He turned back the other side of the card, picture, and
He'd be about eighteen now, way I figure it. He'd be about eighteen now, way I figure it.
The Skibbereen father hereupon tore open his grey or unclean anyhow shirt The Skibbereen father hereupon tore open his grey or unclean anyhow shirt
with his two hands and scratched away at his chest on which was to be with his two hands and scratched away at his chest on which was to be
seen an image tattooed in blue Chinese ink intended to represent an seen an image tattooed in blue Chinese ink intended to represent an
anchor. anchor.
--There was lice in that bunk in Bridgwater, he remarked, sure as nuts. I --There was lice in that bunk in Bridgwater, he remarked, sure as nuts. I
must get a wash tomorrow or next day. It's them black lads I objects to. must get a wash tomorrow or next day. It's them black lads I objects to.
I hate those buggers. Suck your blood dry, they does. I hate those buggers. Suck your blood dry, they does.
Seeing they were all looking at his chest he accommodatingly dragged his Seeing they were all looking at his chest he accommodatingly dragged his
shirt more open so that on top of the timehonoured symbol of the shirt more open so that on top of the timehonoured symbol of the
mariner's hope and rest they had a full view of the figure 16 and a young mariner's hope and rest they had a full view of the figure 16 and a young
man's sideface looking frowningly rather. man's sideface looking frowningly rather.
--Tattoo, the exhibitor explained. That was done when we were Iying --Tattoo, the exhibitor explained. That was done when we were Iying
becalmed off Odessa in the Black Sea under Captain Dalton. Fellow, the becalmed off Odessa in the Black Sea under Captain Dalton. Fellow, the
name of Antonio, done that. There he is himself, a Greek. name of Antonio, done that. There he is himself, a Greek.
--Did it hurt much doing it? one asked the sailor. --Did it hurt much doing it? one asked the sailor.
That worthy, however, was busily engaged in collecting round the. Someway That worthy, however, was busily engaged in collecting round the. Someway
in his. Squeezing or. in his. Squeezing or.
--See here, he said, showing Antonio. There he is cursing the mate. And --See here, he said, showing Antonio. There he is cursing the mate. And
there he is now, he added, the same fellow, pulling the skin with his there he is now, he added, the same fellow, pulling the skin with his
fingers, some special knack evidently, and he laughing at a yarn. fingers, some special knack evidently, and he laughing at a yarn.
And in point of fact the young man named Antonio's livid face did And in point of fact the young man named Antonio's livid face did
actually look like forced smiling and the curious effect excited the actually look like forced smiling and the curious effect excited the
unreserved admiration of everybody including Skin-the-Goat, who this time unreserved admiration of everybody including Skin-the-Goat, who this time
stretched over. stretched over.
--Ay, ay, sighed the sailor, looking down on his manly chest. He's gone --Ay, ay, sighed the sailor, looking down on his manly chest. He's gone
--Full many a flower is born to blush unseen. --Full many a flower is born to blush unseen.
And says Lenehan that knows a bit of the lingo: And says Lenehan that knows a bit of the lingo:
--CONSPUEZ LES ANGLAIS! PERFIDE ALBION! --CONSPUEZ LES ANGLAIS! PERFIDE ALBION!
He said and then lifted he in his rude great brawny strengthy hands He said and then lifted he in his rude great brawny strengthy hands
the medher of dark strong foamy ale and, uttering his tribal slogan LAMH the medher of dark strong foamy ale and, uttering his tribal slogan LAMH
DEARG ABU, he drank to the undoing of his foes, a race of mighty valorous DEARG ABU, he drank to the undoing of his foes, a race of mighty valorous
heroes, rulers of the waves, who sit on thrones of alabaster silent as the heroes, rulers of the waves, who sit on thrones of alabaster silent as the
deathless gods. deathless gods.
--What's up with you, says I to Lenehan. You look like a fellow that had --What's up with you, says I to Lenehan. You look like a fellow that had
lost a bob and found a tanner. lost a bob and found a tanner.
--Gold cup, says he. --Gold cup, says he.
--Who won, Mr Lenehan? says Terry. --Who won, Mr Lenehan? says Terry.
--THROWAWAY, says he, at twenty to one. A rank outsider. And the rest --THROWAWAY, says he, at twenty to one. A rank outsider. And the rest
nowhere. nowhere.
--And Bass's mare? says Terry. --And Bass's mare? says Terry.
--Still running, says he. We're all in a cart. Boylan plunged two quid on --Still running, says he. We're all in a cart. Boylan plunged two quid on
my tip SCEPTRE for himself and a lady friend. my tip SCEPTRE for himself and a lady friend.
--I had half a crown myself, says Terry, on ZINFANDEL that Mr Flynn gave --I had half a crown myself, says Terry, on ZINFANDEL that Mr Flynn gave
me. Lord Howard de Walden's. me. Lord Howard de Walden's.
--Twenty to one, says Lenehan. Such is life in an outhouse. THROWAWAY, --Twenty to one, says Lenehan. Such is life in an outhouse. THROWAWAY,
says he. Takes the biscuit, and talking about bunions. Frailty, thy name says he. Takes the biscuit, and talking about bunions. Frailty, thy name
is SCEPTRE. is SCEPTRE.
So he went over to the biscuit tin Bob Doran left to see if there was So he went over to the biscuit tin Bob Doran left to see if there was
anything he could lift on the nod, the old cur after him backing his luck anything he could lift on the nod, the old cur after him backing his luck
with his mangy snout up. Old Mother Hubbard went to the cupboard. with his mangy snout up. Old Mother Hubbard went to the cupboard.
--Not there, my child, says he. --Not there, my child, says he.
--Keep your pecker up, says Joe. She'd have won the money only for the --Keep your pecker up, says Joe. She'd have won the money only for the
other dog. other dog.
And J. J. and the citizen arguing about law and history with Bloom And J. J. and the citizen arguing about law and history with Bloom
sticking in an odd word. sticking in an odd word.
--Some people, says Bloom, can see the mote in others' eyes but they can't --Some people, says Bloom, can see the mote in others' eyes but they can't
see the beam in their own. see the beam in their own.
--RAIMEIS, says the citizen. There's no-one as blind as the fellow that --RAIMEIS, says the citizen. There's no-one as blind as the fellow that
won't see, if you know what that means. Where are our missing won't see, if you know what that means. Where are our missing
twenty millions of Irish should be here today instead of four, twenty millions of Irish should be here today instead of four,
our lost tribes? And our potteries and textiles, the finest in our lost tribes? And our potteries and textiles, the finest in
the whole world! And our wool that was sold in Rome in the time the whole world! And our wool that was sold in Rome in the time
of Juvenal and our flax and our damask from the looms of Antrim of Juvenal and our flax and our damask from the looms of Antrim
and our Limerick lace, our tanneries and our white flint glass and our Limerick lace, our tanneries and our white flint glass
down there by Ballybough and our Huguenot poplin that we have since down there by Ballybough and our Huguenot poplin that we have since
Jacquard de Lyon and our woven silk and our Foxford tweeds and ivory Jacquard de Lyon and our woven silk and our Foxford tweeds and ivory
raised point from the Carmelite convent in New Ross, nothing like it in raised point from the Carmelite convent in New Ross, nothing like it in
the whole wide world. Where are the Greek merchants that came through the the whole wide world. Where are the Greek merchants that came through the
pillars of Hercules, the Gibraltar now grabbed by the foe of mankind, with pillars of Hercules, the Gibraltar now grabbed by the foe of mankind, with
gold and Tyrian purple to sell in Wexford at the fair of Carmen? Read gold and Tyrian purple to sell in Wexford at the fair of Carmen? Read
Tacitus and Ptolemy, even Giraldus Cambrensis. Wine, peltries, Tacitus and Ptolemy, even Giraldus Cambrensis. Wine, peltries,
Connemara marble, silver from Tipperary, second to none, our farfamed Connemara marble, silver from Tipperary, second to none, our farfamed
horses even today, the Irish hobbies, with king Philip of Spain offering horses even today, the Irish hobbies, with king Philip of Spain offering
to pay customs duties for the right to fish in our waters. What do the to pay customs duties for the right to fish in our waters. What do the
yellowjohns of Anglia owe us for our ruined trade and our ruined hearths? yellowjohns of Anglia owe us for our ruined trade and our ruined hearths?
And the beds of the Barrow and Shannon they won't deepen with millions And the beds of the Barrow and Shannon they won't deepen with millions
of acres of marsh and bog to make us all die of consumption? of acres of marsh and bog to make us all die of consumption?
--As treeless as Portugal we'll be soon, says John Wyse, or Heligoland --As treeless as Portugal we'll be soon, says John Wyse, or Heligoland
with its one tree if something is not done to reafforest the land. with its one tree if something is not done to reafforest the land.
Larches, firs, all the trees of the conifer family are going fast. I was Larches, firs, all the trees of the conifer family are going fast. I was
shake. O, that's all only all right. shake. O, that's all only all right.
You were going to do wonders, what? Missionary to Europe after You were going to do wonders, what? Missionary to Europe after
fiery Columbanus. Fiacre and Scotus on their creepystools in heaven spilt fiery Columbanus. Fiacre and Scotus on their creepystools in heaven spilt
from their pintpots, loudlatinlaughing: EUGE! EUGE! Pretending to speak from their pintpots, loudlatinlaughing: EUGE! EUGE! Pretending to speak
broken English as you dragged your valise, porter threepence, across the broken English as you dragged your valise, porter threepence, across the
slimy pier at Newhaven. COMMENT? Rich booty you brought back; LE TUTU, slimy pier at Newhaven. COMMENT? Rich booty you brought back; LE TUTU,
five tattered numbers of PANTALON BLANC ET CULOTTE ROUGE; a blue five tattered numbers of PANTALON BLANC ET CULOTTE ROUGE; a blue
French telegram, curiosity to show: French telegram, curiosity to show:
--Mother dying come home father. --Mother dying come home father.
The aunt thinks you killed your mother. That's why she won't. The aunt thinks you killed your mother. That's why she won't.
    THEN HERE'S A HEALTH TO MULLIGAN'S AUNT     THEN HERE'S A HEALTH TO MULLIGAN'S AUNT
    AND I'LL TELL YOU THE REASON WHY.     AND I'LL TELL YOU THE REASON WHY.
    SHE ALWAYS KEPT THINGS DECENT IN     SHE ALWAYS KEPT THINGS DECENT IN
    THE HANNIGAN FAMILEYE.     THE HANNIGAN FAMILEYE.
His feet marched in sudden proud rhythm over the sand furrows, His feet marched in sudden proud rhythm over the sand furrows,
along by the boulders of the south wall. He stared at them proudly, piled along by the boulders of the south wall. He stared at them proudly, piled
stone mammoth skulls. Gold light on sea, on sand, on boulders. The sun is stone mammoth skulls. Gold light on sea, on sand, on boulders. The sun is
there, the slender trees, the lemon houses. there, the slender trees, the lemon houses.
Paris rawly waking, crude sunlight on her lemon streets. Moist pith of Paris rawly waking, crude sunlight on her lemon streets. Moist pith of
farls of bread, the froggreen wormwood, her matin incense, court the air. farls of bread, the froggreen wormwood, her matin incense, court the air.
Belluomo rises from the bed of his wife's lover's wife, the kerchiefed Belluomo rises from the bed of his wife's lover's wife, the kerchiefed
housewife is astir, a saucer of acetic acid in her hand. In Rodot's Yvonne housewife is astir, a saucer of acetic acid in her hand. In Rodot's Yvonne
and Madeleine newmake their tumbled beauties, shattering with gold teeth and Madeleine newmake their tumbled beauties, shattering with gold teeth
CHAUSSONS of pastry, their mouths yellowed with the PUS of FLAN BRETON. CHAUSSONS of pastry, their mouths yellowed with the PUS of FLAN BRETON.
Faces of Paris men go by, their wellpleased pleasers, curled Faces of Paris men go by, their wellpleased pleasers, curled
    KILKENNY ...     KILKENNY ...
Weak wasting hand on mine. They have forgotten Kevin Egan, not he Weak wasting hand on mine. They have forgotten Kevin Egan, not he
them. Remembering thee, O Sion. them. Remembering thee, O Sion.
He had come nearer the edge of the sea and wet sand slapped his He had come nearer the edge of the sea and wet sand slapped his
boots. The new air greeted him, harping in wild nerves, wind of wild air boots. The new air greeted him, harping in wild nerves, wind of wild air
of seeds of brightness. Here, I am not walking out to the Kish lightship, of seeds of brightness. Here, I am not walking out to the Kish lightship,
am I? He stood suddenly, his feet beginning to sink slowly in the quaking am I? He stood suddenly, his feet beginning to sink slowly in the quaking
soil. Turn back. soil. Turn back.
Turning, he scanned the shore south, his feet sinking again slowly in Turning, he scanned the shore south, his feet sinking again slowly in
new sockets. The cold domed room of the tower waits. Through the new sockets. The cold domed room of the tower waits. Through the
barbacans the shafts of light are moving ever, slowly ever as my feet are barbacans the shafts of light are moving ever, slowly ever as my feet are
sinking, creeping duskward over the dial floor. Blue dusk, nightfall, deep sinking, creeping duskward over the dial floor. Blue dusk, nightfall, deep
blue night. In the darkness of the dome they wait, their pushedback blue night. In the darkness of the dome they wait, their pushedback
chairs, my obelisk valise, around a board of abandoned platters. Who to chairs, my obelisk valise, around a board of abandoned platters. Who to
clear it? He has the key. I will not sleep there when this night comes. clear it? He has the key. I will not sleep there when this night comes.
A shut door of a silent tower, entombing their--blind bodies, the A shut door of a silent tower, entombing their--blind bodies, the
panthersahib and his pointer. Call: no answer. He lifted his feet up from panthersahib and his pointer. Call: no answer. He lifted his feet up from
the suck and turned back by the mole of boulders. Take all, keep all. My the suck and turned back by the mole of boulders. Take all, keep all. My
soul walks with me, form of forms. So in the moon's midwatches I pace the soul walks with me, form of forms. So in the moon's midwatches I pace the
path above the rocks, in sable silvered, hearing Elsinore's tempting path above the rocks, in sable silvered, hearing Elsinore's tempting
flood. flood.
The flood is following me. I can watch it flow past from here. Get The flood is following me. I can watch it flow past from here. Get
back then by the Poolbeg road to the strand there. He climbed over the back then by the Poolbeg road to the strand there. He climbed over the
sedge and eely oarweeds and sat on a stool of rock, resting his ashplant sedge and eely oarweeds and sat on a stool of rock, resting his ashplant
in a grike. in a grike.
A bloated carcass of a dog lay lolled on bladderwrack. Before him the A bloated carcass of a dog lay lolled on bladderwrack. Before him the
gunwale of a boat, sunk in sand. UN COCHE ENSABLE Louis Veuillot called gunwale of a boat, sunk in sand. UN COCHE ENSABLE Louis Veuillot called
Gautier's prose. These heavy sands are language tide and wind have silted Gautier's prose. These heavy sands are language tide and wind have silted
here. And these, the stoneheaps of dead builders, a warren of weasel rats. here. And these, the stoneheaps of dead builders, a warren of weasel rats.
Hide gold there. Try it. You have some. Sands and stones. Heavy of the Hide gold there. Try it. You have some. Sands and stones. Heavy of the
past. Sir Lout's toys. Mind you don't get one bang on the ear. I'm the past. Sir Lout's toys. Mind you don't get one bang on the ear. I'm the
bloody well gigant rolls all them bloody well boulders, bones for my bloody well gigant rolls all them bloody well boulders, bones for my
steppingstones. Feefawfum. I zmellz de bloodz odz an Iridzman. steppingstones. Feefawfum. I zmellz de bloodz odz an Iridzman.
A point, live dog, grew into sight running across the sweep of sand. A point, live dog, grew into sight running across the sweep of sand.
Lord, is he going to attack me? Respect his liberty. You will not be Lord, is he going to attack me? Respect his liberty. You will not be
master of others or their slave. I have my stick. Sit tight. From farther master of others or their slave. I have my stick. Sit tight. From farther
away, walking shoreward across from the crested tide, figures, two. The away, walking shoreward across from the crested tide, figures, two. The
two maries. They have tucked it safe mong the bulrushes. Peekaboo. I see two maries. They have tucked it safe mong the bulrushes. Peekaboo. I see
you. No, the dog. He is running back to them. Who? you. No, the dog. He is running back to them. Who?
Galleys of the Lochlanns ran here to beach, in quest of prey, their Galleys of the Lochlanns ran here to beach, in quest of prey, their
bloodbeaked prows riding low on a molten pewter surf. Dane vikings, torcs bloodbeaked prows riding low on a molten pewter surf. Dane vikings, torcs
of tomahawks aglitter on their breasts when Malachi wore the collar of of tomahawks aglitter on their breasts when Malachi wore the collar of
gold. A school of turlehide whales stranded in hot noon, spouting, gold. A school of turlehide whales stranded in hot noon, spouting,
hobbling in the shallows. Then from the starving cagework city a horde of hobbling in the shallows. Then from the starving cagework city a horde of
jerkined dwarfs, my people, with flayers' knives, running, scaling, jerkined dwarfs, my people, with flayers' knives, running, scaling,
hacking in green blubbery whalemeat. Famine, plague and slaughters. Their hacking in green blubbery whalemeat. Famine, plague and slaughters. Their
blood is in me, their lusts my waves. I moved among them on the frozen blood is in me, their lusts my waves. I moved among them on the frozen
Liffey, that I, a changeling, among the spluttering resin fires. I spoke Liffey, that I, a changeling, among the spluttering resin fires. I spoke
to no-one: none to me. to no-one: none to me.
scribbled words. That's twice I forgot to take slips from the library scribbled words. That's twice I forgot to take slips from the library
counter. counter.
His shadow lay over the rocks as he bent, ending. Why not endless till His shadow lay over the rocks as he bent, ending. Why not endless till
the farthest star? Darkly they are there behind this light, darkness the farthest star? Darkly they are there behind this light, darkness
shining in the brightness, delta of Cassiopeia, worlds. Me sits there with shining in the brightness, delta of Cassiopeia, worlds. Me sits there with
his augur's rod of ash, in borrowed sandals, by day beside a livid sea, his augur's rod of ash, in borrowed sandals, by day beside a livid sea,
unbeheld, in violet night walking beneath a reign of uncouth stars. unbeheld, in violet night walking beneath a reign of uncouth stars.
I throw this ended shadow from me, manshape ineluctable, call it back. I throw this ended shadow from me, manshape ineluctable, call it back.
Endless, would it be mine, form of my form? Who watches me here? Who ever Endless, would it be mine, form of my form? Who watches me here? Who ever
anywhere will read these written words? Signs on a white field. Somewhere anywhere will read these written words? Signs on a white field. Somewhere
to someone in your flutiest voice. The good bishop of Cloyne took the veil to someone in your flutiest voice. The good bishop of Cloyne took the veil
of the temple out of his shovel hat: veil of space with coloured emblems of the temple out of his shovel hat: veil of space with coloured emblems
hatched on its field. Hold hard. Coloured on a flat: yes, that's right. hatched on its field. Hold hard. Coloured on a flat: yes, that's right.
Flat I see, then think distance, near, far, flat I see, east, back. Ah, Flat I see, then think distance, near, far, flat I see, east, back. Ah,
see now! Falls back suddenly, frozen in stereoscope. Click does the trick. see now! Falls back suddenly, frozen in stereoscope. Click does the trick.
You find my words dark. Darkness is in our souls do you not think? You find my words dark. Darkness is in our souls do you not think?
Flutier. Our souls, shamewounded by our sins, cling to us yet more, Flutier. Our souls, shamewounded by our sins, cling to us yet more,
a woman to her lover clinging, the more the more. a woman to her lover clinging, the more the more.
She trusts me, her hand gentle, the longlashed eyes. Now where the blue She trusts me, her hand gentle, the longlashed eyes. Now where the blue
hell am I bringing her beyond the veil? Into the ineluctable modality hell am I bringing her beyond the veil? Into the ineluctable modality
of the ineluctable visuality. She, she, she. What she? The virgin of the ineluctable visuality. She, she, she. What she? The virgin
at Hodges Figgis' window on Monday looking in for one of the alphabet at Hodges Figgis' window on Monday looking in for one of the alphabet
greengoldenly lagoons of sand, rising, flowing. My ashplant will float greengoldenly lagoons of sand, rising, flowing. My ashplant will float
away. I shall wait. No, they will pass on, passing, chafing against the away. I shall wait. No, they will pass on, passing, chafing against the
low rocks, swirling, passing. Better get this job over quick. Listen: a low rocks, swirling, passing. Better get this job over quick. Listen: a
fourworded wavespeech: seesoo, hrss, rsseeiss, ooos. Vehement breath of fourworded wavespeech: seesoo, hrss, rsseeiss, ooos. Vehement breath of
waters amid seasnakes, rearing horses, rocks. In cups of rocks it slops: waters amid seasnakes, rearing horses, rocks. In cups of rocks it slops:
flop, slop, slap: bounded in barrels. And, spent, its speech ceases. It flop, slop, slap: bounded in barrels. And, spent, its speech ceases. It
flows purling, widely flowing, floating foampool, flower unfurling. flows purling, widely flowing, floating foampool, flower unfurling.
Under the upswelling tide he saw the writhing weeds lift languidly Under the upswelling tide he saw the writhing weeds lift languidly
and sway reluctant arms, hising up their petticoats, in whispering water and sway reluctant arms, hising up their petticoats, in whispering water
swaying and upturning coy silver fronds. Day by day: night by night: swaying and upturning coy silver fronds. Day by day: night by night:
lifted, flooded and let fall. Lord, they are weary; and, whispered to, lifted, flooded and let fall. Lord, they are weary; and, whispered to,
they sigh. Saint Ambrose heard it, sigh of leaves and waves, waiting, they sigh. Saint Ambrose heard it, sigh of leaves and waves, waiting,
awaiting the fullness of their times, DIEBUS AC NOCTIBUS INIURIAS PATIENS awaiting the fullness of their times, DIEBUS AC NOCTIBUS INIURIAS PATIENS
INGEMISCIT. To no end gathered; vainly then released, forthflowing, INGEMISCIT. To no end gathered; vainly then released, forthflowing,
wending back: loom of the moon. Weary too in sight of lovers, lascivious wending back: loom of the moon. Weary too in sight of lovers, lascivious
men, a naked woman shining in her courts, she draws a toil of waters. men, a naked woman shining in her courts, she draws a toil of waters.
To Master Percy Apjohn at High School in 1880 he had divulged his To Master Percy Apjohn at High School in 1880 he had divulged his
disbelief in the tenets of the Irish (protestant) church (to which his disbelief in the tenets of the Irish (protestant) church (to which his
father Rudolf Virag (later Rudolph Bloom) had been converted from the father Rudolf Virag (later Rudolph Bloom) had been converted from the
Israelitic faith and communion in 1865 by the Society for promoting Israelitic faith and communion in 1865 by the Society for promoting
Christianity among the jews) subsequently abjured by him in favour of Christianity among the jews) subsequently abjured by him in favour of
Roman catholicism at the epoch of and with a view to his matrimony in Roman catholicism at the epoch of and with a view to his matrimony in
1888. To Daniel Magrane and Francis Wade in 1882 during a juvenile 1888. To Daniel Magrane and Francis Wade in 1882 during a juvenile
Too showy. That must be why the women go after them. Uniform. Easier to Too showy. That must be why the women go after them. Uniform. Easier to
enlist and drill. Maud Gonne's letter about taking them off O'Connell enlist and drill. Maud Gonne's letter about taking them off O'Connell
street at night: disgrace to our Irish capital. Griffith's paper is on street at night: disgrace to our Irish capital. Griffith's paper is on
the same tack now: an army rotten with venereal disease: overseas or the same tack now: an army rotten with venereal disease: overseas or
halfseasover empire. Half baked they look: hypnotised like. Eyes front. halfseasover empire. Half baked they look: hypnotised like. Eyes front.
Mark time. Table: able. Bed: ed. The King's own. Never see him dressed up Mark time. Table: able. Bed: ed. The King's own. Never see him dressed up
as a fireman or a bobby. A mason, yes. as a fireman or a bobby. A mason, yes.
He strolled out of the postoffice and turned to the right. Talk: as if He strolled out of the postoffice and turned to the right. Talk: as if
that would mend matters. His hand went into his pocket and a forefinger that would mend matters. His hand went into his pocket and a forefinger
felt its way under the flap of the envelope, ripping it open in jerks. felt its way under the flap of the envelope, ripping it open in jerks.
Women will pay a lot of heed, I don't think. His fingers drew forth the Women will pay a lot of heed, I don't think. His fingers drew forth the
letter the letter and crumpled the envelope in his pocket. Something letter the letter and crumpled the envelope in his pocket. Something
pinned on: photo perhaps. Hair? No. pinned on: photo perhaps. Hair? No.
M'Coy. Get rid of him quickly. Take me out of my way. Hate company when M'Coy. Get rid of him quickly. Take me out of my way. Hate company when
you. you.
--Hello, Bloom. Where are you off to? --Hello, Bloom. Where are you off to?
--Hello, M'Coy. Nowhere in particular. --Hello, M'Coy. Nowhere in particular.
--How's the body? --How's the body?
--Fine. How are you? --Fine. How are you?
--Just keeping alive, M'Coy said. --Just keeping alive, M'Coy said.
His eyes on the black tie and clothes he asked with low respect: His eyes on the black tie and clothes he asked with low respect:
--Is there any ... no trouble I hope? I see you're ... --Is there any ... no trouble I hope? I see you're ...
--O, no, Mr Bloom said. Poor Dignam, you know. The funeral is today. --O, no, Mr Bloom said. Poor Dignam, you know. The funeral is today.
--To be sure, poor fellow. So it is. What time? --To be sure, poor fellow. So it is. What time?
A photo it isn't. A badge maybe. A photo it isn't. A badge maybe.
--E ... eleven, Mr Bloom answered. --E ... eleven, Mr Bloom answered.
--I must try to get out there, M'Coy said. Eleven, is it? I only heard it --I must try to get out there, M'Coy said. Eleven, is it? I only heard it
last night. Who was telling me? Holohan. You know Hoppy? last night. Who was telling me? Holohan. You know Hoppy?
--I know. --I know.
Mr Bloom gazed across the road at the outsider drawn up before the door Mr Bloom gazed across the road at the outsider drawn up before the door
of the Grosvenor. The porter hoisted the valise up on the well. She stood of the Grosvenor. The porter hoisted the valise up on the well. She stood
still, waiting, while the man, husband, brother, like her, searched his still, waiting, while the man, husband, brother, like her, searched his
pockets for change. Stylish kind of coat with that roll collar, warm for pockets for change. Stylish kind of coat with that roll collar, warm for
a day like this, looks like blanketcloth. Careless stand of her with her a day like this, looks like blanketcloth. Careless stand of her with her
hands in those patch pockets. Like that haughty creature at the polo hands in those patch pockets. Like that haughty creature at the polo
match. Women all for caste till you touch the spot. Handsome is and match. Women all for caste till you touch the spot. Handsome is and
handsome does. Reserved about to yield. The honourable Mrs and Brutus is handsome does. Reserved about to yield. The honourable Mrs and Brutus is
an honourable man. Possess her once take the starch out of her. an honourable man. Possess her once take the starch out of her.
--I was with Bob Doran, he's on one of his periodical bends, and what do --I was with Bob Doran, he's on one of his periodical bends, and what do
you call him Bantam Lyons. Just down there in Conway's we were. you call him Bantam Lyons. Just down there in Conway's we were.
Doran Lyons in Conway's. She raised a gloved hand to her hair. In came Doran Lyons in Conway's. She raised a gloved hand to her hair. In came
Hoppy. Having a wet. Drawing back his head and gazing far from beneath Hoppy. Having a wet. Drawing back his head and gazing far from beneath
his vailed eyelids he saw the bright fawn skin shine in the glare, the his vailed eyelids he saw the bright fawn skin shine in the glare, the
braided drums. Clearly I can see today. Moisture about gives long sight braided drums. Clearly I can see today. Moisture about gives long sight
perhaps. Talking of one thing or another. Lady's hand. Which side will perhaps. Talking of one thing or another. Lady's hand. Which side will
she get up? she get up?
--And he said: SAD THING ABOUT OUR POOR FRIEND PADDY! WHAT PADDY? I said. --And he said: SAD THING ABOUT OUR POOR FRIEND PADDY! WHAT PADDY? I said.
POOR LITTLE PADDY DIGNAM, he said. POOR LITTLE PADDY DIGNAM, he said.
Off to the country: Broadstone probably. High brown boots with laces Off to the country: Broadstone probably. High brown boots with laces
dangling. Wellturned foot. What is he foostering over that change for? dangling. Wellturned foot. What is he foostering over that change for?
Sees me looking. Eye out for other fellow always. Good fallback. Two Sees me looking. Eye out for other fellow always. Good fallback. Two
strings to her bow. strings to her bow.
--WHY? I said. WHAT'S WRONG WITH HIM? I said. --WHY? I said. WHAT'S WRONG WITH HIM? I said.
Proud: rich: silk stockings. Proud: rich: silk stockings.
--Yes, Mr Bloom said. --Yes, Mr Bloom said.
He moved a little to the side of M'Coy's talking head. Getting up in a He moved a little to the side of M'Coy's talking head. Getting up in a
minute. minute.
--WHAT'S WRONG WITH HIM? He said. HE'S DEAD, he said. And, faith, he --WHAT'S WRONG WITH HIM? He said. HE'S DEAD, he said. And, faith, he
filled up. IS IT PADDY DIGNAM? I said. I couldn't believe it when I heard filled up. IS IT PADDY DIGNAM? I said. I couldn't believe it when I heard
it. I was with him no later than Friday last or Thursday was it in the it. I was with him no later than Friday last or Thursday was it in the
Arch. YES, he said. HE'S GONE. HE DIED ON MONDAY, POOR FELLOW. Watch! Arch. YES, he said. HE'S GONE. HE DIED ON MONDAY, POOR FELLOW. Watch!
Watch! Silk flash rich stockings white. Watch! Watch! Silk flash rich stockings white. Watch!
A heavy tramcar honking its gong slewed between. A heavy tramcar honking its gong slewed between.
Lost it. Curse your noisy pugnose. Feels locked out of it. Paradise and Lost it. Curse your noisy pugnose. Feels locked out of it. Paradise and
the peri. Always happening like that. The very moment. Girl in Eustace the peri. Always happening like that. The very moment. Girl in Eustace
street hallway Monday was it settling her garter. Her friend covering the street hallway Monday was it settling her garter. Her friend covering the
display of. ESPRIT DE CORPS. Well, what are you gaping at? display of. ESPRIT DE CORPS. Well, what are you gaping at?
--Yes, yes, Mr Bloom said after a dull sigh. Another gone. --Yes, yes, Mr Bloom said after a dull sigh. Another gone.
--One of the best, M'Coy said. --One of the best, M'Coy said.
The tram passed. They drove off towards the Loop Line bridge, her rich The tram passed. They drove off towards the Loop Line bridge, her rich
gloved hand on the steel grip. Flicker, flicker: the laceflare of her hat gloved hand on the steel grip. Flicker, flicker: the laceflare of her hat
in the sun: flicker, flick. in the sun: flicker, flick.
--Wife well, I suppose? M'Coy's changed voice said. --Wife well, I suppose? M'Coy's changed voice said.
--O, yes, Mr Bloom said. Tiptop, thanks. --O, yes, Mr Bloom said. Tiptop, thanks.
He unrolled the newspaper baton idly and read idly: He unrolled the newspaper baton idly and read idly:
    WHAT IS HOME WITHOUT     WHAT IS HOME WITHOUT
    PLUMTREE'S POTTED MEAT?     PLUMTREE'S POTTED MEAT?
    INCOMPLETE     INCOMPLETE
    WITH IT AN ABODE OF BLISS.     WITH IT AN ABODE OF BLISS.
--My missus has just got an engagement. At least it's not settled yet. --My missus has just got an engagement. At least it's not settled yet.
Valise tack again. By the way no harm. I'm off that, thanks. Valise tack again. By the way no harm. I'm off that, thanks.
Mr Bloom turned his largelidded eyes with unhasty friendliness. Mr Bloom turned his largelidded eyes with unhasty friendliness.
--My wife too, he said. She's going to sing at a swagger affair in the --My wife too, he said. She's going to sing at a swagger affair in the
Ulster Hall, Belfast, on the twenty-fifth. Ulster Hall, Belfast, on the twenty-fifth.
--That so? M'Coy said. Glad to hear that, old man. Who's getting it up? --That so? M'Coy said. Glad to hear that, old man. Who's getting it up?
Mrs Marion Bloom. Not up yet. Queen was in her bedroom eating bread and. Mrs Marion Bloom. Not up yet. Queen was in her bedroom eating bread and.
No book. Blackened court cards laid along her thigh by sevens. Dark lady No book. Blackened court cards laid along her thigh by sevens. Dark lady
and fair man. Letter. Cat furry black ball. Torn strip of envelope. and fair man. Letter. Cat furry black ball. Torn strip of envelope.
    LOVE'S     LOVE'S
    OLD     OLD
    SWEET     SWEET
    SONG     SONG
    COMES LO-OVE'S OLD ...     COMES LO-OVE'S OLD ...
--It's a kind of a tour, don't you see, Mr Bloom said thoughtfully. --It's a kind of a tour, don't you see, Mr Bloom said thoughtfully.
SWEEEET SONG.  There's a committee formed. Part shares and part profits. SWEEEET SONG.  There's a committee formed. Part shares and part profits.
M'Coy nodded, picking at his moustache stubble. M'Coy nodded, picking at his moustache stubble.
--O, well, he said. That's good news. --O, well, he said. That's good news.
He moved to go. He moved to go.
--Well, glad to see you looking fit, he said. Meet you knocking around. --Well, glad to see you looking fit, he said. Meet you knocking around.
--Yes, Mr Bloom said. --Yes, Mr Bloom said.
--Tell you what, M'Coy said. You might put down my name at the funeral, --Tell you what, M'Coy said. You might put down my name at the funeral,
will you? I'd like to go but I mightn't be able, you see. There's a will you? I'd like to go but I mightn't be able, you see. There's a
drowning case at Sandycove may turn up and then the coroner and myself drowning case at Sandycove may turn up and then the coroner and myself
would have to go down if the body is found. You just shove in my name if would have to go down if the body is found. You just shove in my name if
I'm not there, will you? I'm not there, will you?
--I'll do that, Mr Bloom said, moving to get off. That'll be all right. --I'll do that, Mr Bloom said, moving to get off. That'll be all right.
--Right, M'Coy said brightly. Thanks, old man. I'd go if I possibly --Right, M'Coy said brightly. Thanks, old man. I'd go if I possibly
could. Well, tolloll. Just C. P. M'Coy will do. could. Well, tolloll. Just C. P. M'Coy will do.
--That will be done, Mr Bloom answered firmly. --That will be done, Mr Bloom answered firmly.
Didn't catch me napping that wheeze. The quick touch. Soft mark. I'd like Didn't catch me napping that wheeze. The quick touch. Soft mark. I'd like
my job. Valise I have a particular fancy for. Leather. Capped corners, my job. Valise I have a particular fancy for. Leather. Capped corners,
rivetted edges, double action lever lock. Bob Cowley lent him his for the rivetted edges, double action lever lock. Bob Cowley lent him his for the
Wicklow regatta concert last year and never heard tidings of it from that Wicklow regatta concert last year and never heard tidings of it from that
good day to this. good day to this.
Mr Bloom, strolling towards Brunswick street, smiled. My missus has just Mr Bloom, strolling towards Brunswick street, smiled. My missus has just
got an. Reedy freckled soprano. Cheeseparing nose. Nice enough in its got an. Reedy freckled soprano. Cheeseparing nose. Nice enough in its
way: for a little ballad. No guts in it. You and me, don't you know: in way: for a little ballad. No guts in it. You and me, don't you know: in
the same boat. Softsoaping. Give you the needle that would. Can't he hear the same boat. Softsoaping. Give you the needle that would. Can't he hear
the difference? Think he's that way inclined a bit. Against my grain the difference? Think he's that way inclined a bit. Against my grain
somehow. Thought that Belfast would fetch him. I hope that smallpox up somehow. Thought that Belfast would fetch him. I hope that smallpox up
there doesn't get worse. Suppose she wouldn't let herself be vaccinated there doesn't get worse. Suppose she wouldn't let herself be vaccinated
again. Your wife and my wife. again. Your wife and my wife.
Wonder is he pimping after me? Wonder is he pimping after me?
Mr Bloom stood at the corner, his eyes wandering over the multicoloured Mr Bloom stood at the corner, his eyes wandering over the multicoloured
hoardings. Cantrell and Cochrane's Ginger Ale (Aromatic). Clery's Summer hoardings. Cantrell and Cochrane's Ginger Ale (Aromatic). Clery's Summer
Sale. No, he's going on straight. Hello. LEAH tonight. Mrs Bandmann Sale. No, he's going on straight. Hello. LEAH tonight. Mrs Bandmann
Palmer. Like to see her again in that. HAMLET she played last night. Male Palmer. Like to see her again in that. HAMLET she played last night. Male
impersonator. Perhaps he was a woman. Why Ophelia committed suicide. Poor impersonator. Perhaps he was a woman. Why Ophelia committed suicide. Poor
papa! How he used to talk of Kate Bateman in that. Outside the Adelphi in papa! How he used to talk of Kate Bateman in that. Outside the Adelphi in
London waited all the afternoon to get in. Year before I was born that London waited all the afternoon to get in. Year before I was born that
was: sixtyfive. And Ristori in Vienna. What is this the right name is? By was: sixtyfive. And Ristori in Vienna. What is this the right name is? By
Mosenthal it is. Rachel, is it? No. The scene he was always talking about Mosenthal it is. Rachel, is it? No. The scene he was always talking about
where the old blind Abraham recognises the voice and puts his fingers on where the old blind Abraham recognises the voice and puts his fingers on
his face. his face.
Nathan's voice! His son's voice! I hear the voice of Nathan who left his Nathan's voice! His son's voice! I hear the voice of Nathan who left his
father to die of grief and misery in my arms, who left the house of his father to die of grief and misery in my arms, who left the house of his
father and left the God of his father. father and left the God of his father.
Every word is so deep, Leopold. Every word is so deep, Leopold.
Poor papa! Poor man! I'm glad I didn't go into the room to look at his Poor papa! Poor man! I'm glad I didn't go into the room to look at his
face. That day! O, dear! O, dear! Ffoo! Well, perhaps it was best for face. That day! O, dear! O, dear! Ffoo! Well, perhaps it was best for
him. him.
Mr Bloom went round the corner and passed the drooping nags of the Mr Bloom went round the corner and passed the drooping nags of the
hazard. No use thinking of it any more. Nosebag time. Wish I hadn't met hazard. No use thinking of it any more. Nosebag time. Wish I hadn't met
that M'Coy fellow. that M'Coy fellow.
He came nearer and heard a crunching of gilded oats, the gently champing He came nearer and heard a crunching of gilded oats, the gently champing
teeth. Their full buck eyes regarded him as he went by, amid the sweet teeth. Their full buck eyes regarded him as he went by, amid the sweet
oaten reek of horsepiss. Their Eldorado. Poor jugginses! Damn all they oaten reek of horsepiss. Their Eldorado. Poor jugginses! Damn all they
know or care about anything with their long noses stuck in nosebags. Too know or care about anything with their long noses stuck in nosebags. Too
full for words. Still they get their feed all right and their doss. full for words. Still they get their feed all right and their doss.
Gelded too: a stump of black guttapercha wagging limp between their Gelded too: a stump of black guttapercha wagging limp between their
haunches. Might be happy all the same that way. Good poor brutes they haunches. Might be happy all the same that way. Good poor brutes they
look. Still their neigh can be very irritating. look. Still their neigh can be very irritating.
He drew the letter from his pocket and folded it into the newspaper he He drew the letter from his pocket and folded it into the newspaper he
carried. Might just walk into her here. The lane is safer. carried. Might just walk into her here. The lane is safer.
He passed the cabman's shelter. Curious the life of drifting cabbies. All He passed the cabman's shelter. Curious the life of drifting cabbies. All
weathers, all places, time or setdown, no will of their own. VOGLIO E weathers, all places, time or setdown, no will of their own. VOGLIO E
NON. Like to give them an odd cigarette. Sociable. Shout a few flying NON. Like to give them an odd cigarette. Sociable. Shout a few flying
syllables as they pass. He hummed: syllables as they pass. He hummed:
    LA CI DAREM LA MANO     LA CI DAREM LA MANO
    LA LA LALA LA LA.     LA LA LALA LA LA.
He turned into Cumberland street and, going on some paces, halted He turned into Cumberland street and, going on some paces, halted
in the lee of the station wall. No-one. Meade's timberyard. Piled balks. in the lee of the station wall. No-one. Meade's timberyard. Piled balks.
Ruins and tenements. With careful tread he passed over a hopscotch court Ruins and tenements. With careful tread he passed over a hopscotch court
with its forgotten pickeystone. Not a sinner. Near the timberyard a with its forgotten pickeystone. Not a sinner. Near the timberyard a
squatted child at marbles, alone, shooting the taw with a cunnythumb. A squatted child at marbles, alone, shooting the taw with a cunnythumb. A
wise tabby, a blinking sphinx, watched from her warm sill. Pity to disturb wise tabby, a blinking sphinx, watched from her warm sill. Pity to disturb
them. Mohammed cut a piece out of his mantle not to wake her. Open it. them. Mohammed cut a piece out of his mantle not to wake her. Open it.
And once I played marbles when I went to that old dame's school. She liked And once I played marbles when I went to that old dame's school. She liked
mignonette. Mrs Ellis's. And Mr? He opened the letter within the mignonette. Mrs Ellis's. And Mr? He opened the letter within the
newspaper. newspaper.
A flower. I think it's a. A yellow flower with flattened petals. Not A flower. I think it's a. A yellow flower with flattened petals. Not
annoyed then? What does she say? annoyed then? What does she say?
    Dear Henry     Dear Henry
I got your last letter to me and thank you very much for it. I am sorry I got your last letter to me and thank you very much for it. I am sorry
you did not like my last letter. Why did you enclose the stamps? I am you did not like my last letter. Why did you enclose the stamps? I am
awfully angry with you. I do wish I could punish you for that. I called awfully angry with you. I do wish I could punish you for that. I called
you naughty boy because I do not like that other world. Please tell me you naughty boy because I do not like that other world. Please tell me
what is the real meaning of that word? Are you not happy in your home you what is the real meaning of that word? Are you not happy in your home you
poor little naughty boy? I do wish I could do something for you. Please poor little naughty boy? I do wish I could do something for you. Please
tell me what you think of poor me. I often think of the beautiful name you tell me what you think of poor me. I often think of the beautiful name you
have. Dear Henry, when will we meet? I think of you so often you have no have. Dear Henry, when will we meet? I think of you so often you have no
idea. I have never felt myself so much drawn to a man as you. I feel so idea. I have never felt myself so much drawn to a man as you. I feel so
bad about. Please write me a long letter and tell me more. Remember if you bad about. Please write me a long letter and tell me more. Remember if you
do not I will punish you. So now you know what I will do to you, you do not I will punish you. So now you know what I will do to you, you
naughty boy, if you do not wrote. O how I long to meet you. Henry dear, do naughty boy, if you do not wrote. O how I long to meet you. Henry dear, do
not deny my request before my patience are exhausted. Then I will tell you not deny my request before my patience are exhausted. Then I will tell you
all. Goodbye now, naughty darling, I have such a bad headache. today. and all. Goodbye now, naughty darling, I have such a bad headache. today. and
write BY RETURN to your longing write BY RETURN to your longing
    Martha     Martha
P. S. Do tell me what kind of perfume does your wife use. I want to know. P. S. Do tell me what kind of perfume does your wife use. I want to know.
He tore the flower gravely from its pinhold smelt its almost no smell He tore the flower gravely from its pinhold smelt its almost no smell
and placed it in his heart pocket. Language of flowers. They like it and placed it in his heart pocket. Language of flowers. They like it
because no-one can hear. Or a poison bouquet to strike him down. Then because no-one can hear. Or a poison bouquet to strike him down. Then
walking slowly forward he read the letter again, murmuring here and there walking slowly forward he read the letter again, murmuring here and there
a word. Angry tulips with you darling manflower punish your cactus if you a word. Angry tulips with you darling manflower punish your cactus if you
don't please poor forgetmenot how I long violets to dear roses when we don't please poor forgetmenot how I long violets to dear roses when we
soon anemone meet all naughty nightstalk wife Martha's perfume. Having soon anemone meet all naughty nightstalk wife Martha's perfume. Having
read it all he took it from the newspaper and put it back in his read it all he took it from the newspaper and put it back in his
sidepocket. sidepocket.
Weak joy opened his lips. Changed since the first letter. Wonder Weak joy opened his lips. Changed since the first letter. Wonder
did she wrote it herself. Doing the indignant: a girl of good did she wrote it herself. Doing the indignant: a girl of good
family like me, respectable character. Could meet one Sunday after the family like me, respectable character. Could meet one Sunday after the
rosary. Thank you: not having any. Usual love scrimmage. Then running rosary. Thank you: not having any. Usual love scrimmage. Then running
round corners. Bad as a row with Molly. Cigar has a cooling effect. round corners. Bad as a row with Molly. Cigar has a cooling effect.
Narcotic. Go further next time. Naughty boy: punish: afraid of words, of Narcotic. Go further next time. Naughty boy: punish: afraid of words, of
course. Brutal, why not? Try it anyhow. A bit at a time. course. Brutal, why not? Try it anyhow. A bit at a time.
Fingering still the letter in his pocket he drew the pin out of it. Fingering still the letter in his pocket he drew the pin out of it.
Common pin, eh? He threw it on the road. Out of her clothes somewhere: Common pin, eh? He threw it on the road. Out of her clothes somewhere:
pinned together. Queer the number of pins they always have. No roses pinned together. Queer the number of pins they always have. No roses
without thorns. without thorns.
Flat Dublin voices bawled in his head. Those two sluts that night in Flat Dublin voices bawled in his head. Those two sluts that night in
the Coombe, linked together in the rain. the Coombe, linked together in the rain.
    O, MARY LOST THE PIN OF HER DRAWERS.     O, MARY LOST THE PIN OF HER DRAWERS.
    SHE DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TO DO     SHE DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TO DO
    TO KEEP IT UP     TO KEEP IT UP
    TO KEEP IT UP.     TO KEEP IT UP.
It? Them. Such a bad headache. Has her roses probably. Or sitting all day It? Them. Such a bad headache. Has her roses probably. Or sitting all day
typing. Eyefocus bad for stomach nerves. What perfume does your wife typing. Eyefocus bad for stomach nerves. What perfume does your wife
use. Now could you make out a thing like that? use. Now could you make out a thing like that?
    TO KEEP IT UP.     TO KEEP IT UP.
Martha, Mary. I saw that picture somewhere I forget now old master or Martha, Mary. I saw that picture somewhere I forget now old master or
faked for money. He is sitting in their house, talking. Mysterious. Also faked for money. He is sitting in their house, talking. Mysterious. Also
the two sluts in the Coombe would listen. the two sluts in the Coombe would listen.
    TO KEEP IT UP.     TO KEEP IT UP.
Nice kind of evening feeling. No more wandering about. Just loll there: Nice kind of evening feeling. No more wandering about. Just loll there:
quiet dusk: let everything rip. Forget. Tell about places you have been, quiet dusk: let everything rip. Forget. Tell about places you have been,
strange customs. The other one, jar on her head, was getting the supper: strange customs. The other one, jar on her head, was getting the supper:
fruit, olives, lovely cool water out of a well, stonecold like the hole in fruit, olives, lovely cool water out of a well, stonecold like the hole in
the wall at Ashtown. Must carry a paper goblet next time I go to the the wall at Ashtown. Must carry a paper goblet next time I go to the
trottingmatches. She listens with big dark soft eyes. Tell her: more and trottingmatches. She listens with big dark soft eyes. Tell her: more and
more: all. Then a sigh: silence. Long long long rest. more: all. Then a sigh: silence. Long long long rest.
Going under the railway arch he took out the envelope, tore it swiftly Going under the railway arch he took out the envelope, tore it swiftly
in shreds and scattered them towards the road. The shreds fluttered away, in shreds and scattered them towards the road. The shreds fluttered away,
sank in the dank air: a white flutter, then all sank. sank in the dank air: a white flutter, then all sank.
Henry Flower. You could tear up a cheque for a hundred pounds in Henry Flower. You could tear up a cheque for a hundred pounds in
the same way. Simple bit of paper. Lord Iveagh once cashed a sevenfigure the same way. Simple bit of paper. Lord Iveagh once cashed a sevenfigure
cheque for a million in the bank of Ireland. Shows you the money to be cheque for a million in the bank of Ireland. Shows you the money to be
made out of porter. Still the other brother lord Ardilaun has to change made out of porter. Still the other brother lord Ardilaun has to change
his shirt four times a day, they say. Skin breeds lice or vermin. A his shirt four times a day, they say. Skin breeds lice or vermin. A
million pounds, wait a moment. Twopence a pint, fourpence a quart, million pounds, wait a moment. Twopence a pint, fourpence a quart,
eightpence a gallon of porter, no, one and fourpence a gallon of porter. eightpence a gallon of porter, no, one and fourpence a gallon of porter.
One and four into twenty: fifteen about. Yes, exactly. Fifteen millions of One and four into twenty: fifteen about. Yes, exactly. Fifteen millions of
barrels of porter. barrels of porter.
What am I saying barrels? Gallons. About a million barrels all the same. What am I saying barrels? Gallons. About a million barrels all the same.
An incoming train clanked heavily above his head, coach after coach. An incoming train clanked heavily above his head, coach after coach.
Barrels bumped in his head: dull porter slopped and churned inside. The Barrels bumped in his head: dull porter slopped and churned inside. The
bungholes sprang open and a huge dull flood leaked out, flowing together, bungholes sprang open and a huge dull flood leaked out, flowing together,
winding through mudflats all over the level land, a lazy pooling swirl of winding through mudflats all over the level land, a lazy pooling swirl of
liquor bearing along wideleaved flowers of its froth. liquor bearing along wideleaved flowers of its froth.
He had reached the open backdoor of All Hallows. Stepping into the He had reached the open backdoor of All Hallows. Stepping into the
porch he doffed his hat, took the card from his pocket and tucked it again porch he doffed his hat, took the card from his pocket and tucked it again
behind the leather headband. Damn it. I might have tried to work M'Coy behind the leather headband. Damn it. I might have tried to work M'Coy
for a pass to Mullingar. for a pass to Mullingar.
Same notice on the door. Sermon by the very reverend John Conmee Same notice on the door. Sermon by the very reverend John Conmee
S.J. on saint Peter Claver S.J. and the African Mission. Prayers for the S.J. on saint Peter Claver S.J. and the African Mission. Prayers for the
conversion of Gladstone they had too when he was almost unconscious. conversion of Gladstone they had too when he was almost unconscious.
The protestants are the same. Convert Dr William J. Walsh D.D. to the The protestants are the same. Convert Dr William J. Walsh D.D. to the
true religion. Save China's millions. Wonder how they explain it to the true religion. Save China's millions. Wonder how they explain it to the
heathen Chinee. Prefer an ounce of opium. Celestials. Rank heresy for heathen Chinee. Prefer an ounce of opium. Celestials. Rank heresy for
them. Buddha their god lying on his side in the museum. Taking it easy them. Buddha their god lying on his side in the museum. Taking it easy
with hand under his cheek. Josssticks burning. Not like Ecce Homo. Crown with hand under his cheek. Josssticks burning. Not like Ecce Homo. Crown
of thorns and cross. Clever idea Saint Patrick the shamrock. Chopsticks? of thorns and cross. Clever idea Saint Patrick the shamrock. Chopsticks?
Conmee: Martin Cunningham knows him: distinguishedlooking. Sorry I Conmee: Martin Cunningham knows him: distinguishedlooking. Sorry I
didn't work him about getting Molly into the choir instead of that Father didn't work him about getting Molly into the choir instead of that Father
Farley who looked a fool but wasn't. They're taught that. He's not going Farley who looked a fool but wasn't. They're taught that. He's not going
out in bluey specs with the sweat rolling off him to baptise blacks, is out in bluey specs with the sweat rolling off him to baptise blacks, is
he? The glasses would take their fancy, flashing. Like to see them sitting he? The glasses would take their fancy, flashing. Like to see them sitting
round in a ring with blub lips, entranced, listening. Still life. Lap it round in a ring with blub lips, entranced, listening. Still life. Lap it
up like milk, I suppose. up like milk, I suppose.
The cold smell of sacred stone called him. He trod the worn steps, The cold smell of sacred stone called him. He trod the worn steps,
pushed the swingdoor and entered softly by the rere. pushed the swingdoor and entered softly by the rere.
Something going on: some sodality. Pity so empty. Nice discreet place Something going on: some sodality. Pity so empty. Nice discreet place
to be next some girl. Who is my neighbour? Jammed by the hour to slow to be next some girl. Who is my neighbour? Jammed by the hour to slow
music. That woman at midnight mass. Seventh heaven. Women knelt in the music. That woman at midnight mass. Seventh heaven. Women knelt in the
benches with crimson halters round their necks, heads bowed. A batch knelt benches with crimson halters round their necks, heads bowed. A batch knelt
at the altarrails. The priest went along by them, murmuring, holding the at the altarrails. The priest went along by them, murmuring, holding the
thing in his hands. He stopped at each, took out a communion, shook a thing in his hands. He stopped at each, took out a communion, shook a
drop or two (are they in water?) off it and put it neatly into her mouth. drop or two (are they in water?) off it and put it neatly into her mouth.
Her hat and head sank. Then the next one. Her hat sank at once. Then the Her hat and head sank. Then the next one. Her hat sank at once. Then the
next one: a small old woman. The priest bent down to put it into her next one: a small old woman. The priest bent down to put it into her
mouth, murmuring all the time. Latin. The next one. Shut your eyes and mouth, murmuring all the time. Latin. The next one. Shut your eyes and
open your mouth. What? CORPUS: body. Corpse. Good idea the Latin. open your mouth. What? CORPUS: body. Corpse. Good idea the Latin.
Stupefies them first. Hospice for the dying. They don't seem to chew it: Stupefies them first. Hospice for the dying. They don't seem to chew it:
only swallow it down. Rum idea: eating bits of a corpse. Why the cannibals only swallow it down. Rum idea: eating bits of a corpse. Why the cannibals
cotton to it. cotton to it.
He stood aside watching their blind masks pass down the aisle, one by He stood aside watching their blind masks pass down the aisle, one by
one, and seek their places. He approached a bench and seated himself in one, and seek their places. He approached a bench and seated himself in
its corner, nursing his hat and newspaper. These pots we have to wear. We its corner, nursing his hat and newspaper. These pots we have to wear. We
ought to have hats modelled on our heads. They were about him here and ought to have hats modelled on our heads. They were about him here and
there, with heads still bowed in their crimson halters, waiting for it to there, with heads still bowed in their crimson halters, waiting for it to
melt in their stomachs. Something like those mazzoth: it's that sort of melt in their stomachs. Something like those mazzoth: it's that sort of
bread: unleavened shewbread. Look at them. Now I bet it makes them feel bread: unleavened shewbread. Look at them. Now I bet it makes them feel
happy. Lollipop. It does. Yes, bread of angels it's called. There's a big happy. Lollipop. It does. Yes, bread of angels it's called. There's a big
idea behind it, kind of kingdom of God is within you feel. First idea behind it, kind of kingdom of God is within you feel. First
communicants. Hokypoky penny a lump. Then feel all like one family party, communicants. Hokypoky penny a lump. Then feel all like one family party,
same in the theatre, all in the same swim. They do. I'm sure of that. Not same in the theatre, all in the same swim. They do. I'm sure of that. Not
so lonely. In our confraternity. Then come out a bit spreeish. Let off so lonely. In our confraternity. Then come out a bit spreeish. Let off
steam. Thing is if you really believe in it. Lourdes cure, waters of steam. Thing is if you really believe in it. Lourdes cure, waters of
oblivion, and the Knock apparition, statues bleeding. Old fellow asleep oblivion, and the Knock apparition, statues bleeding. Old fellow asleep
near that confessionbox. Hence those snores. Blind faith. Safe in the arms near that confessionbox. Hence those snores. Blind faith. Safe in the arms
of kingdom come. Lulls all pain. Wake this time next year. of kingdom come. Lulls all pain. Wake this time next year.
He saw the priest stow the communion cup away, well in, and kneel He saw the priest stow the communion cup away, well in, and kneel
an instant before it, showing a large grey bootsole from under the lace an instant before it, showing a large grey bootsole from under the lace
affair he had on. Suppose he lost the pin of his. He wouldn't know what to affair he had on. Suppose he lost the pin of his. He wouldn't know what to
do to. Bald spot behind. Letters on his back: I.N.R.I? No: I.H.S. do to. Bald spot behind. Letters on his back: I.N.R.I? No: I.H.S.
Molly told me one time I asked her. I have sinned: or no: I have suffered, Molly told me one time I asked her. I have sinned: or no: I have suffered,
it is. And the other one? Iron nails ran in. it is. And the other one? Iron nails ran in.
Meet one Sunday after the rosary. Do not deny my request. Turn up Meet one Sunday after the rosary. Do not deny my request. Turn up
with a veil and black bag. Dusk and the light behind her. She might be with a veil and black bag. Dusk and the light behind her. She might be
here with a ribbon round her neck and do the other thing all the same on here with a ribbon round her neck and do the other thing all the same on
the sly. Their character. That fellow that turned queen's evidence on the the sly. Their character. That fellow that turned queen's evidence on the
invincibles he used to receive the, Carey was his name, the communion invincibles he used to receive the, Carey was his name, the communion
every morning. This very church. Peter Carey, yes. No, Peter Claver I am every morning. This very church. Peter Carey, yes. No, Peter Claver I am
thinking of. Denis Carey. And just imagine that. Wife and six children thinking of. Denis Carey. And just imagine that. Wife and six children
at home. And plotting that murder all the time. Those crawthumpers, at home. And plotting that murder all the time. Those crawthumpers,
now that's a good name for them, there's always something shiftylooking now that's a good name for them, there's always something shiftylooking
about them. They're not straight men of business either. O, no, she's about them. They're not straight men of business either. O, no, she's
not here: the flower: no, no. By the way, did I tear up that envelope? not here: the flower: no, no. By the way, did I tear up that envelope?
Yes: under the bridge. Yes: under the bridge.
The priest was rinsing out the chalice: then he tossed off the dregs The priest was rinsing out the chalice: then he tossed off the dregs
smartly. Wine. Makes it more aristocratic than for example if he drank smartly. Wine. Makes it more aristocratic than for example if he drank
what they are used to Guinness's porter or some temperance beverage what they are used to Guinness's porter or some temperance beverage
Wheatley's Dublin hop bitters or Cantrell and Cochrane's ginger ale Wheatley's Dublin hop bitters or Cantrell and Cochrane's ginger ale
(aromatic). Doesn't give them any of it: shew wine: only the other. Cold (aromatic). Doesn't give them any of it: shew wine: only the other. Cold
comfort. Pious fraud but quite right: otherwise they'd have one old booser comfort. Pious fraud but quite right: otherwise they'd have one old booser
worse than another coming along, cadging for a drink. Queer the whole worse than another coming along, cadging for a drink. Queer the whole
atmosphere of the. Quite right. Perfectly right that is. atmosphere of the. Quite right. Perfectly right that is.
Mr Bloom looked back towards the choir. Not going to be any music. Mr Bloom looked back towards the choir. Not going to be any music.
Pity. Who has the organ here I wonder? Old Glynn he knew how to make Pity. Who has the organ here I wonder? Old Glynn he knew how to make
that instrument talk, the VIBRATO: fifty pounds a year they say he had in that instrument talk, the VIBRATO: fifty pounds a year they say he had in
Gardiner street. Molly was in fine voice that day, the STABAT MATER of Gardiner street. Molly was in fine voice that day, the STABAT MATER of
Rossini. Father Bernard Vaughan's sermon first. Christ or Pilate? Christ, Rossini. Father Bernard Vaughan's sermon first. Christ or Pilate? Christ,
but don't keep us all night over it. Music they wanted. Footdrill stopped. but don't keep us all night over it. Music they wanted. Footdrill stopped.
Could hear a pin drop. I told her to pitch her voice against that corner. Could hear a pin drop. I told her to pitch her voice against that corner.
I could feel the thrill in the air, the full, the people looking up: I could feel the thrill in the air, the full, the people looking up:
QUIS EST HOMO. QUIS EST HOMO.
Some of that old sacred music splendid. Mercadante: seven last Some of that old sacred music splendid. Mercadante: seven last
words. Mozart's twelfth mass: GLORIA in that. Those old popes keen on words. Mozart's twelfth mass: GLORIA in that. Those old popes keen on
music, on art and statues and pictures of all kinds. Palestrina for music, on art and statues and pictures of all kinds. Palestrina for
example too. They had a gay old time while it lasted. Healthy too, example too. They had a gay old time while it lasted. Healthy too,
chanting, regular hours, then brew liqueurs. Benedictine. Green chanting, regular hours, then brew liqueurs. Benedictine. Green
Chartreuse. Still, having eunuchs in their choir that was coming it a bit Chartreuse. Still, having eunuchs in their choir that was coming it a bit
thick. What kind of voice is it? Must be curious to hear after their own thick. What kind of voice is it? Must be curious to hear after their own
strong basses. Connoisseurs. Suppose they wouldn't feel anything after. strong basses. Connoisseurs. Suppose they wouldn't feel anything after.
Kind of a placid. No worry. Fall into flesh, don't they? Gluttons, tall, Kind of a placid. No worry. Fall into flesh, don't they? Gluttons, tall,
long legs. Who knows? Eunuch. One way out of it. long legs. Who knows? Eunuch. One way out of it.
He saw the priest bend down and kiss the altar and then face about He saw the priest bend down and kiss the altar and then face about
and bless all the people. All crossed themselves and stood up. Mr Bloom and bless all the people. All crossed themselves and stood up. Mr Bloom
glanced about him and then stood up, looking over the risen hats. Stand up glanced about him and then stood up, looking over the risen hats. Stand up
at the gospel of course. Then all settled down on their knees again and he at the gospel of course. Then all settled down on their knees again and he
sat back quietly in his bench. The priest came down from the altar, sat back quietly in his bench. The priest came down from the altar,
holding the thing out from him, and he and the massboy answered each other holding the thing out from him, and he and the massboy answered each other
in Latin. Then the priest knelt down and began to read off a card: in Latin. Then the priest knelt down and began to read off a card:
--O God, our refuge and our strength ... --O God, our refuge and our strength ...
Mr Bloom put his face forward to catch the words. English. Throw Mr Bloom put his face forward to catch the words. English. Throw
them the bone. I remember slightly. How long since your last mass? them the bone. I remember slightly. How long since your last mass?
Glorious and immaculate virgin. Joseph, her spouse. Peter and Paul. More Glorious and immaculate virgin. Joseph, her spouse. Peter and Paul. More
interesting if you understood what it was all about. Wonderful interesting if you understood what it was all about. Wonderful
organisation certainly, goes like clockwork. Confession. Everyone wants organisation certainly, goes like clockwork. Confession. Everyone wants
to. Then I will tell you all. Penance. Punish me, please. Great weapon in to. Then I will tell you all. Penance. Punish me, please. Great weapon in
their hands. More than doctor or solicitor. Woman dying to. And I their hands. More than doctor or solicitor. Woman dying to. And I
schschschschschsch. And did you chachachachacha? And why did you? Look schschschschschsch. And did you chachachachacha? And why did you? Look
down at her ring to find an excuse. Whispering gallery walls have ears. down at her ring to find an excuse. Whispering gallery walls have ears.
Husband learn to his surprise. God's little joke. Then out she comes. Husband learn to his surprise. God's little joke. Then out she comes.
Repentance skindeep. Lovely shame. Pray at an altar. Hail Mary and Repentance skindeep. Lovely shame. Pray at an altar. Hail Mary and
Holy Mary. Flowers, incense, candles melting. Hide her blushes. Holy Mary. Flowers, incense, candles melting. Hide her blushes.
Salvation army blatant imitation. Reformed prostitute will address Salvation army blatant imitation. Reformed prostitute will address
the meeting. How I found the Lord. Squareheaded chaps those must be the meeting. How I found the Lord. Squareheaded chaps those must be
in Rome: they work the whole show. And don't they rake in the money too? in Rome: they work the whole show. And don't they rake in the money too?
Bequests also: to the P.P. for the time being in his absolute discretion. Bequests also: to the P.P. for the time being in his absolute discretion.
Masses for the repose of my soul to be said publicly with open doors. Masses for the repose of my soul to be said publicly with open doors.
Monasteries and convents. The priest in that Fermanagh will case in Monasteries and convents. The priest in that Fermanagh will case in
the witnessbox. No browbeating him. He had his answer pat for everything. the witnessbox. No browbeating him. He had his answer pat for everything.
Liberty and exaltation of our holy mother the church. The doctors of the Liberty and exaltation of our holy mother the church. The doctors of the
church: they mapped out the whole theology of it. church: they mapped out the whole theology of it.
The priest prayed: The priest prayed:
--Blessed Michael, archangel, defend us in the hour of conflict. Be our --Blessed Michael, archangel, defend us in the hour of conflict. Be our
safeguard against the wickedness and snares of the devil (may God restrain safeguard against the wickedness and snares of the devil (may God restrain
him, we humbly pray!): and do thou, O prince of the heavenly host, by the him, we humbly pray!): and do thou, O prince of the heavenly host, by the
power of God thrust Satan down to hell and with him those other wicked power of God thrust Satan down to hell and with him those other wicked
spirits who wander through the world for the ruin of souls. spirits who wander through the world for the ruin of souls.
The priest and the massboy stood up and walked off. All over. The The priest and the massboy stood up and walked off. All over. The
women remained behind: thanksgiving. women remained behind: thanksgiving.
Better be shoving along. Brother Buzz. Come around with the plate Better be shoving along. Brother Buzz. Come around with the plate
perhaps. Pay your Easter duty. perhaps. Pay your Easter duty.
He stood up. Hello. Were those two buttons of my waistcoat open all He stood up. Hello. Were those two buttons of my waistcoat open all
the time? Women enjoy it. Never tell you. But we. Excuse, miss, there's a the time? Women enjoy it. Never tell you. But we. Excuse, miss, there's a
(whh!) just a (whh!) fluff. Or their skirt behind, placket unhooked. (whh!) just a (whh!) fluff. Or their skirt behind, placket unhooked.
Glimpses of the moon. Annoyed if you don't. Why didn't you tell me Glimpses of the moon. Annoyed if you don't. Why didn't you tell me
before. Still like you better untidy. Good job it wasn't farther south. He before. Still like you better untidy. Good job it wasn't farther south. He
passed, discreetly buttoning, down the aisle and out through the main door passed, discreetly buttoning, down the aisle and out through the main door
into the light. He stood a moment unseeing by the cold black marble bowl into the light. He stood a moment unseeing by the cold black marble bowl
while before him and behind two worshippers dipped furtive hands in the while before him and behind two worshippers dipped furtive hands in the
low tide of holy water. Trams: a car of Prescott's dyeworks: a widow in low tide of holy water. Trams: a car of Prescott's dyeworks: a widow in
her  weeds. Notice because I'm in mourning myself. He covered himself. How her  weeds. Notice because I'm in mourning myself. He covered himself. How
goes the time? Quarter past. Time enough yet. Better get that lotion made goes the time? Quarter past. Time enough yet. Better get that lotion made
up. Where is this? Ah yes, the last time. Sweny's in Lincoln place. up. Where is this? Ah yes, the last time. Sweny's in Lincoln place.
Chemists rarely move. Their green and gold beaconjars too heavy to stir. Chemists rarely move. Their green and gold beaconjars too heavy to stir.
Hamilton Long's, founded in the year of the flood. Huguenot churchyard Hamilton Long's, founded in the year of the flood. Huguenot churchyard
near there. Visit some day. near there. Visit some day.
He walked southward along Westland row. But the recipe is in the He walked southward along Westland row. But the recipe is in the
other trousers. O, and I forgot that latchkey too. Bore this funeral other trousers. O, and I forgot that latchkey too. Bore this funeral
affair. O well, poor fellow, it's not his fault. When was it I got it made affair. O well, poor fellow, it's not his fault. When was it I got it made
up last? Wait. I changed a sovereign I remember. First of the month it up last? Wait. I changed a sovereign I remember. First of the month it
must have been or the second. O, he can look it up in the prescriptions must have been or the second. O, he can look it up in the prescriptions
book. book.
The chemist turned back page after page. Sandy shrivelled smell he The chemist turned back page after page. Sandy shrivelled smell he
seems to have. Shrunken skull. And old. Quest for the philosopher's stone. seems to have. Shrunken skull. And old. Quest for the philosopher's stone.
The alchemists. Drugs age you after mental excitement. Lethargy then. The alchemists. Drugs age you after mental excitement. Lethargy then.
Why? Reaction. A lifetime in a night. Gradually changes your character. Why? Reaction. A lifetime in a night. Gradually changes your character.
Living all the day among herbs, ointments, disinfectants. All his Living all the day among herbs, ointments, disinfectants. All his
alabaster lilypots. Mortar and pestle. Aq. Dist. Fol. Laur. Te Virid. alabaster lilypots. Mortar and pestle. Aq. Dist. Fol. Laur. Te Virid.
Smell almost cure you like the dentist's doorbell. Doctor Whack. He ought Smell almost cure you like the dentist's doorbell. Doctor Whack. He ought
to physic himself a bit. Electuary or emulsion. The first fellow that to physic himself a bit. Electuary or emulsion. The first fellow that
picked an herb to cure himself had a bit of pluck. Simples. Want to be picked an herb to cure himself had a bit of pluck. Simples. Want to be
careful. Enough stuff here to chloroform you. Test: turns blue litmus careful. Enough stuff here to chloroform you. Test: turns blue litmus
paper red. Chloroform. Overdose of laudanum. Sleeping draughts. paper red. Chloroform. Overdose of laudanum. Sleeping draughts.
Lovephiltres. Paragoric poppysyrup bad for cough. Clogs the pores or the Lovephiltres. Paragoric poppysyrup bad for cough. Clogs the pores or the
phlegm. Poisons the only cures. Remedy where you least expect it. Clever phlegm. Poisons the only cures. Remedy where you least expect it. Clever
of nature. of nature.
--About a fortnight ago, sir? --About a fortnight ago, sir?
--Yes, Mr Bloom said. --Yes, Mr Bloom said.
He waited by the counter, inhaling slowly the keen reek of drugs, the He waited by the counter, inhaling slowly the keen reek of drugs, the
dusty dry smell of sponges and loofahs. Lot of time taken up telling your dusty dry smell of sponges and loofahs. Lot of time taken up telling your
aches and pains. aches and pains.
--Sweet almond oil and tincture of benzoin, Mr Bloom said, and then --Sweet almond oil and tincture of benzoin, Mr Bloom said, and then
orangeflower water ... orangeflower water ...
It certainly did make her skin so delicate white like wax. It certainly did make her skin so delicate white like wax.
--And white wax also, he said. --And white wax also, he said.
Brings out the darkness of her eyes. Looking at me, the sheet up to Brings out the darkness of her eyes. Looking at me, the sheet up to
her eyes, Spanish, smelling herself, when I was fixing the links in my her eyes, Spanish, smelling herself, when I was fixing the links in my
cuffs. Those homely recipes are often the best: strawberries for the cuffs. Those homely recipes are often the best: strawberries for the
teeth: nettles and rainwater: oatmeal they say steeped in buttermilk. teeth: nettles and rainwater: oatmeal they say steeped in buttermilk.
Skinfood. One of the old queen's sons, duke of Albany was it? had only one Skinfood. One of the old queen's sons, duke of Albany was it? had only one
skin. Leopold, yes. Three we have. Warts, bunions and pimples to make it skin. Leopold, yes. Three we have. Warts, bunions and pimples to make it
worse. But you want a perfume too. What perfume does your? PEAU D'ESPAGNE. worse. But you want a perfume too. What perfume does your? PEAU D'ESPAGNE.
That orangeflower water is so fresh. Nice smell these soaps have. Pure That orangeflower water is so fresh. Nice smell these soaps have. Pure
curd soap. Time to get a bath round the corner. Hammam. Turkish. Massage. curd soap. Time to get a bath round the corner. Hammam. Turkish. Massage.
Dirt gets rolled up in your navel. Nicer if a nice girl did it. Also I Dirt gets rolled up in your navel. Nicer if a nice girl did it. Also I
think I. Yes I. Do it in the bath. Curious longing I. Water to water. think I. Yes I. Do it in the bath. Curious longing I. Water to water.
Combine business with pleasure. Pity no time for massage. Feel fresh then Combine business with pleasure. Pity no time for massage. Feel fresh then
all the day. Funeral be rather glum. all the day. Funeral be rather glum.
--Yes, sir, the chemist said. That was two and nine. Have you brought a --Yes, sir, the chemist said. That was two and nine. Have you brought a
bottle? bottle?
--No, Mr Bloom said. Make it up, please. I'll call later in the day and --No, Mr Bloom said. Make it up, please. I'll call later in the day and
I'll take one of these soaps. How much are they? I'll take one of these soaps. How much are they?
--Fourpence, sir. --Fourpence, sir.
Mr Bloom raised a cake to his nostrils. Sweet lemony wax. Mr Bloom raised a cake to his nostrils. Sweet lemony wax.
--I'll take this one, he said. That makes three and a penny. --I'll take this one, he said. That makes three and a penny.
--Yes, sir, the chemist said. You can pay all together, sir, when you --Yes, sir, the chemist said. You can pay all together, sir, when you
come back. come back.
--Good, Mr Bloom said. --Good, Mr Bloom said.
He strolled out of the shop, the newspaper baton under his armpit, He strolled out of the shop, the newspaper baton under his armpit,
the coolwrappered soap in his left hand. the coolwrappered soap in his left hand.
At his armpit Bantam Lyons' voice and hand said: At his armpit Bantam Lyons' voice and hand said:
--Hello, Bloom. What's the best news? Is that today's? Show us a minute. --Hello, Bloom. What's the best news? Is that today's? Show us a minute.
Shaved off his moustache again, by Jove! Long cold upper lip. To Shaved off his moustache again, by Jove! Long cold upper lip. To
look younger. He does look balmy. Younger than I am. look younger. He does look balmy. Younger than I am.
Bantam Lyons's yellow blacknailed fingers unrolled the baton. Wants Bantam Lyons's yellow blacknailed fingers unrolled the baton. Wants
a wash too. Take off the rough dirt. Good morning, have you used Pears' a wash too. Take off the rough dirt. Good morning, have you used Pears'
soap? Dandruff on his shoulders. Scalp wants oiling. soap? Dandruff on his shoulders. Scalp wants oiling.
--I want to see about that French horse that's running today, Bantam --I want to see about that French horse that's running today, Bantam
Lyons said. Where the bugger is it? Lyons said. Where the bugger is it?
He rustled the pleated pages, jerking his chin on his high collar. He rustled the pleated pages, jerking his chin on his high collar.
Barber's itch. Tight collar he'll lose his hair. Better leave him the Barber's itch. Tight collar he'll lose his hair. Better leave him the
paper and get shut of him. paper and get shut of him.
--You can keep it, Mr Bloom said. --You can keep it, Mr Bloom said.
--Ascot. Gold cup. Wait, Bantam Lyons muttered. Half a mo. Maximum --Ascot. Gold cup. Wait, Bantam Lyons muttered. Half a mo. Maximum
the second. the second.
--I was just going to throw it away, Mr Bloom said. --I was just going to throw it away, Mr Bloom said.
Bantam Lyons raised his eyes suddenly and leered weakly. Bantam Lyons raised his eyes suddenly and leered weakly.
--What's that? his sharp voice said. --What's that? his sharp voice said.
--I say you can keep it, Mr Bloom answered. I was going to throw it away --I say you can keep it, Mr Bloom answered. I was going to throw it away
that moment. that moment.
Bantam Lyons doubted an instant, leering: then thrust the outspread Bantam Lyons doubted an instant, leering: then thrust the outspread
sheets back on Mr Bloom's arms. sheets back on Mr Bloom's arms.
--I'll risk it, he said. Here, thanks. --I'll risk it, he said. Here, thanks.
He sped off towards Conway's corner. God speed scut. He sped off towards Conway's corner. God speed scut.
Mr Bloom folded the sheets again to a neat square and lodged the Mr Bloom folded the sheets again to a neat square and lodged the
soap in it, smiling. Silly lips of that chap. Betting. Regular hotbed of soap in it, smiling. Silly lips of that chap. Betting. Regular hotbed of
it lately. Messenger boys stealing to put on sixpence. Raffle for large it lately. Messenger boys stealing to put on sixpence. Raffle for large
tender turkey. Your Christmas dinner for threepence. Jack Fleming tender turkey. Your Christmas dinner for threepence. Jack Fleming
embezzling to gamble then smuggled off to America. Keeps a hotel now. They embezzling to gamble then smuggled off to America. Keeps a hotel now. They
never come back. Fleshpots of Egypt. never come back. Fleshpots of Egypt.
He walked cheerfully towards the mosque of the baths. Remind you He walked cheerfully towards the mosque of the baths. Remind you
of a mosque, redbaked bricks, the minarets. College sports today I see. He of a mosque, redbaked bricks, the minarets. College sports today I see. He
eyed the horseshoe poster over the gate of college park: cyclist doubled eyed the horseshoe poster over the gate of college park: cyclist doubled
up like a cod in a pot. Damn bad ad. Now if they had made it round like a up like a cod in a pot. Damn bad ad. Now if they had made it round like a
wheel. Then the spokes: sports, sports, sports: and the hub big: college. wheel. Then the spokes: sports, sports, sports: and the hub big: college.
Something to catch the eye. Something to catch the eye.
There's Hornblower standing at the porter's lodge. Keep him on There's Hornblower standing at the porter's lodge. Keep him on
hands: might take a turn in there on the nod. How do you do, Mr hands: might take a turn in there on the nod. How do you do, Mr
Hornblower? How do you do, sir? Hornblower? How do you do, sir?
Heavenly weather really. If life was always like that. Cricket weather. Heavenly weather really. If life was always like that. Cricket weather.
Sit around under sunshades. Over after over. Out. They can't play it here. Sit around under sunshades. Over after over. Out. They can't play it here.
Duck for six wickets. Still Captain Culler broke a window in the Kildare Duck for six wickets. Still Captain Culler broke a window in the Kildare
street club with a slog to square leg. Donnybrook fair more in their line. street club with a slog to square leg. Donnybrook fair more in their line.
And the skulls we were acracking when M'Carthy took the floor. And the skulls we were acracking when M'Carthy took the floor.
Heatwave. Won't last. Always passing, the stream of life, which in the Heatwave. Won't last. Always passing, the stream of life, which in the
stream of life we trace is dearer than them all. stream of life we trace is dearer than them all.
Enjoy a bath now: clean trough of water, cool enamel, the gentle Enjoy a bath now: clean trough of water, cool enamel, the gentle
tepid stream. This is my body. tepid stream. This is my body.
He foresaw his pale body reclined in it at full, naked, in a womb of He foresaw his pale body reclined in it at full, naked, in a womb of
warmth, oiled by scented melting soap, softly laved. He saw his trunk and warmth, oiled by scented melting soap, softly laved. He saw his trunk and
limbs riprippled over and sustained, buoyed lightly upward, lemonyellow: limbs riprippled over and sustained, buoyed lightly upward, lemonyellow:
his navel, bud of flesh: and saw the dark tangled curls of his bush his navel, bud of flesh: and saw the dark tangled curls of his bush
floating, floating hair of the stream around the limp father of thousands, floating, floating hair of the stream around the limp father of thousands,
a languid floating flower. a languid floating flower.
    * * * * * * *     * * * * * * *
Martin Cunningham, first, poked his silkhatted head into the creaking Martin Cunningham, first, poked his silkhatted head into the creaking
carriage and, entering deftly, seated himself. Mr Power stepped in after carriage and, entering deftly, seated himself. Mr Power stepped in after
him, curving his height with care. him, curving his height with care.
--Come on, Simon. --Come on, Simon.
--After you, Mr Bloom said. --After you, Mr Bloom said.
Mr Dedalus covered himself quickly and got in, saying: Mr Dedalus covered himself quickly and got in, saying:
Yes, yes. Yes, yes.
--Are we all here now? Martin Cunningham asked. Come along, Bloom. --Are we all here now? Martin Cunningham asked. Come along, Bloom.
Mr Bloom entered and sat in the vacant place. He pulled the door to Mr Bloom entered and sat in the vacant place. He pulled the door to
after him and slammed it twice till it shut tight. He passed an arm after him and slammed it twice till it shut tight. He passed an arm
through the armstrap and looked seriously from the open carriagewindow at through the armstrap and looked seriously from the open carriagewindow at
the lowered blinds of the avenue. One dragged aside: an old woman peeping. the lowered blinds of the avenue. One dragged aside: an old woman peeping.
Nose whiteflattened against the pane. Thanking her stars she was passed Nose whiteflattened against the pane. Thanking her stars she was passed
over. Extraordinary the interest they take in a corpse. Glad to see us go over. Extraordinary the interest they take in a corpse. Glad to see us go
we give them such trouble coming. Job seems to suit them. Huggermugger in we give them such trouble coming. Job seems to suit them. Huggermugger in
corners. Slop about in slipperslappers for fear he'd wake. Then getting it corners. Slop about in slipperslappers for fear he'd wake. Then getting it
ready. Laying it out. Molly and Mrs Fleming making the bed. Pull it more ready. Laying it out. Molly and Mrs Fleming making the bed. Pull it more
to your side. Our windingsheet. Never know who will touch you dead. to your side. Our windingsheet. Never know who will touch you dead.
Wash and shampoo. I believe they clip the nails and the hair. Keep a bit Wash and shampoo. I believe they clip the nails and the hair. Keep a bit
in an envelope. Grows all the same after. Unclean job. in an envelope. Grows all the same after. Unclean job.
All waited. Nothing was said. Stowing in the wreaths probably. I am All waited. Nothing was said. Stowing in the wreaths probably. I am
sitting on something hard. Ah, that soap: in my hip pocket. Better shift sitting on something hard. Ah, that soap: in my hip pocket. Better shift
it out of that. Wait for an opportunity. it out of that. Wait for an opportunity.
All waited. Then wheels were heard from in front, turning: then All waited. Then wheels were heard from in front, turning: then
nearer: then horses' hoofs. A jolt. Their carriage began to move, creaking nearer: then horses' hoofs. A jolt. Their carriage began to move, creaking
and swaying. Other hoofs and creaking wheels started behind. The blinds and swaying. Other hoofs and creaking wheels started behind. The blinds
of the avenue passed and number nine with its craped knocker, door ajar. of the avenue passed and number nine with its craped knocker, door ajar.
At walking pace. At walking pace.
They waited still, their knees jogging, till they had turned and were They waited still, their knees jogging, till they had turned and were
passing along the tramtracks. Tritonville road. Quicker. The wheels passing along the tramtracks. Tritonville road. Quicker. The wheels
rattled rolling over the cobbled causeway and the crazy glasses shook rattled rolling over the cobbled causeway and the crazy glasses shook
rattling in the doorframes. rattling in the doorframes.
--What way is he taking us? Mr Power asked through both windows. --What way is he taking us? Mr Power asked through both windows.
--Irishtown, Martin Cunningham said. Ringsend. Brunswick street. --Irishtown, Martin Cunningham said. Ringsend. Brunswick street.
Mr Dedalus nodded, looking out. Mr Dedalus nodded, looking out.
--That's a fine old custom, he said. I am glad to see it has not died out. --That's a fine old custom, he said. I am glad to see it has not died out.
All watched awhile through their windows caps and hats lifted by All watched awhile through their windows caps and hats lifted by
passers. Respect. The carriage swerved from the tramtrack to the smoother passers. Respect. The carriage swerved from the tramtrack to the smoother
road past Watery lane. Mr Bloom at gaze saw a lithe young man, clad in road past Watery lane. Mr Bloom at gaze saw a lithe young man, clad in
mourning, a wide hat. mourning, a wide hat.
--There's a friend of yours gone by, Dedalus, he said. --There's a friend of yours gone by, Dedalus, he said.
--Who is that? --Who is that?
--Your son and heir. --Your son and heir.
--Where is he? Mr Dedalus said, stretching over across. --Where is he? Mr Dedalus said, stretching over across.
The carriage, passing the open drains and mounds of rippedup The carriage, passing the open drains and mounds of rippedup
roadway before the tenement houses, lurched round the corner and, roadway before the tenement houses, lurched round the corner and,
swerving back to the tramtrack, rolled on noisily with chattering wheels. swerving back to the tramtrack, rolled on noisily with chattering wheels.
Mr Dedalus fell back, saying: Mr Dedalus fell back, saying:
--Was that Mulligan cad with him? His FIDUS ACHATES! --Was that Mulligan cad with him? His FIDUS ACHATES!
--No, Mr Bloom said. He was alone. --No, Mr Bloom said. He was alone.
--Down with his aunt Sally, I suppose, Mr Dedalus said, the Goulding --Down with his aunt Sally, I suppose, Mr Dedalus said, the Goulding
faction, the drunken little costdrawer and Crissie, papa's little lump of faction, the drunken little costdrawer and Crissie, papa's little lump of
dung, the wise child that knows her own father. dung, the wise child that knows her own father.
Mr Bloom smiled joylessly on Ringsend road. Wallace Bros: the Mr Bloom smiled joylessly on Ringsend road. Wallace Bros: the
bottleworks: Dodder bridge. bottleworks: Dodder bridge.
Richie Goulding and the legal bag. Goulding, Collis and Ward he Richie Goulding and the legal bag. Goulding, Collis and Ward he
calls the firm. His jokes are getting a bit damp. Great card he was. calls the firm. His jokes are getting a bit damp. Great card he was.
Waltzing in Stamer street with Ignatius Gallaher on a Sunday morning, the Waltzing in Stamer street with Ignatius Gallaher on a Sunday morning, the
landlady's two hats pinned on his head. Out on the rampage all night. landlady's two hats pinned on his head. Out on the rampage all night.
Beginning to tell on him now: that backache of his, I fear. Wife ironing Beginning to tell on him now: that backache of his, I fear. Wife ironing
his back. Thinks he'll cure it with pills. All breadcrumbs they are. his back. Thinks he'll cure it with pills. All breadcrumbs they are.
About six hundred per cent profit. About six hundred per cent profit.
--He's in with a lowdown crowd, Mr Dedalus snarled. That Mulligan is a --He's in with a lowdown crowd, Mr Dedalus snarled. That Mulligan is a
contaminated bloody doubledyed ruffian by all accounts. His name stinks contaminated bloody doubledyed ruffian by all accounts. His name stinks
all over Dublin. But with the help of God and His blessed mother I'll make all over Dublin. But with the help of God and His blessed mother I'll make
it my business to write a letter one of those days to his mother or his it my business to write a letter one of those days to his mother or his
aunt or whatever she is that will open her eye as wide as a gate. I'll aunt or whatever she is that will open her eye as wide as a gate. I'll
tickle his catastrophe, believe you me. tickle his catastrophe, believe you me.
He cried above the clatter of the wheels: He cried above the clatter of the wheels:
--I won't have her bastard of a nephew ruin my son. A counterjumper's --I won't have her bastard of a nephew ruin my son. A counterjumper's
son. Selling tapes in my cousin, Peter Paul M'Swiney's. Not likely. son. Selling tapes in my cousin, Peter Paul M'Swiney's. Not likely.
He ceased. Mr Bloom glanced from his angry moustache to Mr Power's He ceased. Mr Bloom glanced from his angry moustache to Mr Power's
mild face and Martin Cunningham's eyes and beard, gravely shaking. mild face and Martin Cunningham's eyes and beard, gravely shaking.
Noisy selfwilled man. Full of his son. He is right. Something to Noisy selfwilled man. Full of his son. He is right. Something to
hand on. If little Rudy had lived. See him grow up. Hear his voice in the hand on. If little Rudy had lived. See him grow up. Hear his voice in the
house. Walking beside Molly in an Eton suit. My son. Me in his eyes. house. Walking beside Molly in an Eton suit. My son. Me in his eyes.
Strange feeling it would be. From me. Just a chance. Must have been that Strange feeling it would be. From me. Just a chance. Must have been that
morning in Raymond terrace she was at the window watching the two dogs morning in Raymond terrace she was at the window watching the two dogs
at it by the wall of the cease to do evil. And the sergeant grinning up. at it by the wall of the cease to do evil. And the sergeant grinning up.
She had that cream gown on with the rip she never stitched. Give us a She had that cream gown on with the rip she never stitched. Give us a
touch, Poldy. God, I'm dying for it. How life begins. touch, Poldy. God, I'm dying for it. How life begins.
Got big then. Had to refuse the Greystones concert. My son inside Got big then. Had to refuse the Greystones concert. My son inside
her. I could have helped him on in life. I could. Make him independent. her. I could have helped him on in life. I could. Make him independent.
Learn German too. Learn German too.
--Are we late? Mr Power asked. --Are we late? Mr Power asked.
--Ten minutes, Martin Cunningham said, looking at his watch. --Ten minutes, Martin Cunningham said, looking at his watch.
Molly. Milly. Same thing watered down. Her tomboy oaths. O jumping Molly. Milly. Same thing watered down. Her tomboy oaths. O jumping
Jupiter! Ye gods and little fishes! Still, she's a dear girl. Soon Jupiter! Ye gods and little fishes! Still, she's a dear girl. Soon
be a woman. Mullingar. Dearest Papli. Young student. Yes, yes: a woman be a woman. Mullingar. Dearest Papli. Young student. Yes, yes: a woman
too. Life, life. too. Life, life.
The carriage heeled over and back, their four trunks swaying. The carriage heeled over and back, their four trunks swaying.
--Corny might have given us a more commodious yoke, Mr Power said. --Corny might have given us a more commodious yoke, Mr Power said.
--He might, Mr Dedalus said, if he hadn't that squint troubling him. Do --He might, Mr Dedalus said, if he hadn't that squint troubling him. Do
you follow me? you follow me?
He closed his left eye. Martin Cunningham began to brush away He closed his left eye. Martin Cunningham began to brush away
crustcrumbs from under his thighs. crustcrumbs from under his thighs.
--What is this, he said, in the name of God? Crumbs? --What is this, he said, in the name of God? Crumbs?
--Someone seems to have been making a picnic party here lately, Mr Power --Someone seems to have been making a picnic party here lately, Mr Power
said. said.
All raised their thighs and eyed with disfavour the mildewed All raised their thighs and eyed with disfavour the mildewed
buttonless leather of the seats. Mr Dedalus, twisting his nose, frowned buttonless leather of the seats. Mr Dedalus, twisting his nose, frowned
downward and said: downward and said:
--Unless I'm greatly mistaken. What do you think, Martin? --Unless I'm greatly mistaken. What do you think, Martin?
--It struck me too, Martin Cunningham said. --It struck me too, Martin Cunningham said.
Mr Bloom set his thigh down. Glad I took that bath. Feel my feet Mr Bloom set his thigh down. Glad I took that bath. Feel my feet
quite clean. But I wish Mrs Fleming had darned these socks better. quite clean. But I wish Mrs Fleming had darned these socks better.
Mr Dedalus sighed resignedly. Mr Dedalus sighed resignedly.
--After all, he said, it's the most natural thing in the world. --After all, he said, it's the most natural thing in the world.
--Did Tom Kernan turn up? Martin Cunningham asked, twirling the peak --Did Tom Kernan turn up? Martin Cunningham asked, twirling the peak
of his beard gently. of his beard gently.
--Yes, Mr Bloom answered. He's behind with Ned Lambert and Hynes. --Yes, Mr Bloom answered. He's behind with Ned Lambert and Hynes.
--And Corny Kelleher himself? Mr Power asked. --And Corny Kelleher himself? Mr Power asked.
--At the cemetery, Martin Cunningham said. --At the cemetery, Martin Cunningham said.
--I met M'Coy this morning, Mr Bloom said. He said he'd try to come. --I met M'Coy this morning, Mr Bloom said. He said he'd try to come.
The carriage halted short. The carriage halted short.
--What's wrong? --What's wrong?
--We're stopped. --We're stopped.
--Where are we? --Where are we?
Mr Bloom put his head out of the window. Mr Bloom put his head out of the window.
--The grand canal, he said. --The grand canal, he said.
Gasworks. Whooping cough they say it cures. Good job Milly never Gasworks. Whooping cough they say it cures. Good job Milly never
got it. Poor children! Doubles them up black and blue in convulsions. got it. Poor children! Doubles them up black and blue in convulsions.
Shame really. Got off lightly with illnesses compared. Only measles. Shame really. Got off lightly with illnesses compared. Only measles.
Flaxseed tea. Scarlatina, influenza epidemics. Canvassing for death. Don't Flaxseed tea. Scarlatina, influenza epidemics. Canvassing for death. Don't
miss this chance. Dogs' home over there. Poor old Athos! Be good to Athos, miss this chance. Dogs' home over there. Poor old Athos! Be good to Athos,
Leopold, is my last wish. Thy will be done. We obey them in the grave. A Leopold, is my last wish. Thy will be done. We obey them in the grave. A
dying scrawl. He took it to heart, pined away. Quiet brute. Old men's dogs dying scrawl. He took it to heart, pined away. Quiet brute. Old men's dogs
usually are. usually are.
A raindrop spat on his hat. He drew back and saw an instant of A raindrop spat on his hat. He drew back and saw an instant of
shower spray dots over the grey flags. Apart. Curious. Like through a shower spray dots over the grey flags. Apart. Curious. Like through a
colander. I thought it would. My boots were creaking I remember now. colander. I thought it would. My boots were creaking I remember now.
--The weather is changing, he said quietly. --The weather is changing, he said quietly.
--A pity it did not keep up fine, Martin Cunningham said. --A pity it did not keep up fine, Martin Cunningham said.
--Wanted for the country, Mr Power said. There's the sun again coming out. --Wanted for the country, Mr Power said. There's the sun again coming out.
Mr Dedalus, peering through his glasses towards the veiled sun, Mr Dedalus, peering through his glasses towards the veiled sun,
hurled a mute curse at the sky. hurled a mute curse at the sky.
--It's as uncertain as a child's bottom, he said. --It's as uncertain as a child's bottom, he said.
--We're off again. --We're off again.
The carriage turned again its stiff wheels and their trunks swayed The carriage turned again its stiff wheels and their trunks swayed
gently. Martin Cunningham twirled more quickly the peak of his beard. gently. Martin Cunningham twirled more quickly the peak of his beard.
--Tom Kernan was immense last night, he said. And Paddy Leonard taking --Tom Kernan was immense last night, he said. And Paddy Leonard taking
him off to his face. him off to his face.
--O, draw him out, Martin, Mr Power said eagerly. Wait till you hear him, --O, draw him out, Martin, Mr Power said eagerly. Wait till you hear him,
Simon, on Ben Dollard's singing of THE CROPPY BOY. Simon, on Ben Dollard's singing of THE CROPPY BOY.
--Immense, Martin Cunningham said pompously. HIS SINGING OF THAT SIMPLE --Immense, Martin Cunningham said pompously. HIS SINGING OF THAT SIMPLE
BALLAD, MARTIN, IS THE MOST TRENCHANT RENDERING I EVER HEARD IN THE WHOLE BALLAD, MARTIN, IS THE MOST TRENCHANT RENDERING I EVER HEARD IN THE WHOLE
COURSE OF MY EXPERIENCE. COURSE OF MY EXPERIENCE.
--Trenchant, Mr Power said laughing. He's dead nuts on that. And the --Trenchant, Mr Power said laughing. He's dead nuts on that. And the
retrospective arrangement. retrospective arrangement.
--Did you read Dan Dawson's speech? Martin Cunningham asked. --Did you read Dan Dawson's speech? Martin Cunningham asked.
--I did not then, Mr Dedalus said. Where is it? --I did not then, Mr Dedalus said. Where is it?
--In the paper this morning. --In the paper this morning.
Mr Bloom took the paper from his inside pocket. That book I must Mr Bloom took the paper from his inside pocket. That book I must
change for her. change for her.
--No, no, Mr Dedalus said quickly. Later on please. --No, no, Mr Dedalus said quickly. Later on please.
Mr Bloom's glance travelled down the edge of the paper, scanning the Mr Bloom's glance travelled down the edge of the paper, scanning the
deaths: Callan, Coleman, Dignam, Fawcett, Lowry, Naumann, Peake, what deaths: Callan, Coleman, Dignam, Fawcett, Lowry, Naumann, Peake, what
Peake is that? is it the chap was in Crosbie and Alleyne's? no, Sexton, Peake is that? is it the chap was in Crosbie and Alleyne's? no, Sexton,
Urbright. Inked characters fast fading on the frayed breaking paper. Urbright. Inked characters fast fading on the frayed breaking paper.
Thanks to the Little Flower. Sadly missed. To the inexpressible grief of Thanks to the Little Flower. Sadly missed. To the inexpressible grief of
his. Aged 88 after a long and tedious illness. Month's mind: Quinlan. his. Aged 88 after a long and tedious illness. Month's mind: Quinlan.
On whose soul Sweet Jesus have mercy. On whose soul Sweet Jesus have mercy.
    IT IS NOW A MONTH SINCE DEAR HENRY FLED     IT IS NOW A MONTH SINCE DEAR HENRY FLED
    TO HIS HOME UP ABOVE IN THE SKY     TO HIS HOME UP ABOVE IN THE SKY
    WHILE HIS FAMILY WEEPS AND MOURNS HIS LOSS     WHILE HIS FAMILY WEEPS AND MOURNS HIS LOSS
    HOPING SOME DAY TO MEET HIM ON HIGH.     HOPING SOME DAY TO MEET HIM ON HIGH.
I tore up the envelope? Yes. Where did I put her letter after I read it in I tore up the envelope? Yes. Where did I put her letter after I read it in
the bath? He patted his waistcoatpocket. There all right. Dear Henry fled. the bath? He patted his waistcoatpocket. There all right. Dear Henry fled.
Before my patience are exhausted. Before my patience are exhausted.
National school. Meade's yard. The hazard. Only two there now. National school. Meade's yard. The hazard. Only two there now.
Nodding. Full as a tick. Too much bone in their skulls. The other trotting Nodding. Full as a tick. Too much bone in their skulls. The other trotting
round with a fare. An hour ago I was passing there. The jarvies raised round with a fare. An hour ago I was passing there. The jarvies raised
their hats. their hats.
A pointsman's back straightened itself upright suddenly against a A pointsman's back straightened itself upright suddenly against a
tramway standard by Mr Bloom's window. Couldn't they invent something tramway standard by Mr Bloom's window. Couldn't they invent something
automatic so that the wheel itself much handier? Well but that fellow automatic so that the wheel itself much handier? Well but that fellow
would lose his job then? Well but then another fellow would get a job would lose his job then? Well but then another fellow would get a job
making the new invention? making the new invention?
Antient concert rooms. Nothing on there. A man in a buff suit with a Antient concert rooms. Nothing on there. A man in a buff suit with a
crape armlet. Not much grief there. Quarter mourning. People in law crape armlet. Not much grief there. Quarter mourning. People in law
perhaps. perhaps.
They went past the bleak pulpit of saint Mark's, under the railway They went past the bleak pulpit of saint Mark's, under the railway
bridge, past the Queen's theatre: in silence. Hoardings: Eugene Stratton, bridge, past the Queen's theatre: in silence. Hoardings: Eugene Stratton,
Mrs Bandmann Palmer. Could I go to see LEAH tonight, I wonder. I said I. Mrs Bandmann Palmer. Could I go to see LEAH tonight, I wonder. I said I.
Or the LILY OF KILLARNEY? Elster Grimes Opera Company. Big powerful Or the LILY OF KILLARNEY? Elster Grimes Opera Company. Big powerful
change. Wet bright bills for next week. FUN ON THE BRISTOL. Martin change. Wet bright bills for next week. FUN ON THE BRISTOL. Martin
Cunningham could work a pass for the Gaiety. Have to stand a drink or Cunningham could work a pass for the Gaiety. Have to stand a drink or
two. As broad as it's long. two. As broad as it's long.
He's coming in the afternoon. Her songs. He's coming in the afternoon. Her songs.
Plasto's. Sir Philip Crampton's memorial fountain bust. Who was he? Plasto's. Sir Philip Crampton's memorial fountain bust. Who was he?
--How do you do? Martin Cunningham said, raising his palm to his brow --How do you do? Martin Cunningham said, raising his palm to his brow
in salute. in salute.
--He doesn't see us, Mr Power said. Yes, he does. How do you do? --He doesn't see us, Mr Power said. Yes, he does. How do you do?
--Who? Mr Dedalus asked. --Who? Mr Dedalus asked.
--Blazes Boylan, Mr Power said. There he is airing his quiff. --Blazes Boylan, Mr Power said. There he is airing his quiff.
Just that moment I was thinking. Just that moment I was thinking.
Mr Dedalus bent across to salute. From the door of the Red Bank the Mr Dedalus bent across to salute. From the door of the Red Bank the
white disc of a straw hat flashed reply: spruce figure: passed. white disc of a straw hat flashed reply: spruce figure: passed.
Mr Bloom reviewed the nails of his left hand, then those of his right Mr Bloom reviewed the nails of his left hand, then those of his right
hand. The nails, yes. Is there anything more in him that they she sees? hand. The nails, yes. Is there anything more in him that they she sees?
Fascination. Worst man in Dublin. That keeps him alive. They sometimes Fascination. Worst man in Dublin. That keeps him alive. They sometimes
feel what a person is. Instinct. But a type like that. My nails. I am just feel what a person is. Instinct. But a type like that. My nails. I am just
looking at them: well pared. And after: thinking alone. Body getting a bit looking at them: well pared. And after: thinking alone. Body getting a bit
softy. I would notice that: from remembering. What causes that? I suppose softy. I would notice that: from remembering. What causes that? I suppose
the skin can't contract quickly enough when the flesh falls off. But the the skin can't contract quickly enough when the flesh falls off. But the
shape is there. The shape is there still. Shoulders. Hips. Plump. Night of shape is there. The shape is there still. Shoulders. Hips. Plump. Night of
the dance dressing. Shift stuck between the cheeks behind. the dance dressing. Shift stuck between the cheeks behind.
He clasped his hands between his knees and, satisfied, sent his vacant He clasped his hands between his knees and, satisfied, sent his vacant
glance over their faces. glance over their faces.
Mr Power asked: Mr Power asked:
--How is the concert tour getting on, Bloom? --How is the concert tour getting on, Bloom?
--O, very well, Mr Bloom said. I hear great accounts of it. It's a good --O, very well, Mr Bloom said. I hear great accounts of it. It's a good
idea, you see ... idea, you see ...
--Are you going yourself? --Are you going yourself?
--Well no, Mr Bloom said. In point of fact I have to go down to the --Well no, Mr Bloom said. In point of fact I have to go down to the
county Clare on some private business. You see the idea is to tour the county Clare on some private business. You see the idea is to tour the
chief towns. What you lose on one you can make up on the other. chief towns. What you lose on one you can make up on the other.
--Quite so, Martin Cunningham said. Mary Anderson is up there now. --Quite so, Martin Cunningham said. Mary Anderson is up there now.
Have you good artists? Have you good artists?
--Louis Werner is touring her, Mr Bloom said. O yes, we'll have all --Louis Werner is touring her, Mr Bloom said. O yes, we'll have all
topnobbers. J. C. Doyle and John MacCormack I hope and. The best, in topnobbers. J. C. Doyle and John MacCormack I hope and. The best, in
fact. fact.
--And MADAME, Mr Power said smiling. Last but not least. --And MADAME, Mr Power said smiling. Last but not least.
Mr Bloom unclasped his hands in a gesture of soft politeness and Mr Bloom unclasped his hands in a gesture of soft politeness and
clasped them. Smith O'Brien. Someone has laid a bunch of flowers there. clasped them. Smith O'Brien. Someone has laid a bunch of flowers there.
Woman. Must be his deathday. For many happy returns. The carriage Woman. Must be his deathday. For many happy returns. The carriage
wheeling by Farrell's statue united noiselessly their unresisting knees. wheeling by Farrell's statue united noiselessly their unresisting knees.
Oot: a dullgarbed old man from the curbstone tendered his wares, his Oot: a dullgarbed old man from the curbstone tendered his wares, his
mouth opening: oot. mouth opening: oot.
--Four bootlaces for a penny. --Four bootlaces for a penny.
Wonder why he was struck off the rolls. Had his office in Hume Wonder why he was struck off the rolls. Had his office in Hume
street. Same house as Molly's namesake, Tweedy, crown solicitor for street. Same house as Molly's namesake, Tweedy, crown solicitor for
Waterford. Has that silk hat ever since. Relics of old decency. Mourning Waterford. Has that silk hat ever since. Relics of old decency. Mourning
too. Terrible comedown, poor wretch! Kicked about like snuff at a wake. too. Terrible comedown, poor wretch! Kicked about like snuff at a wake.
O'Callaghan on his last legs. O'Callaghan on his last legs.
And MADAME. Twenty past eleven. Up. Mrs Fleming is in to clean. And MADAME. Twenty past eleven. Up. Mrs Fleming is in to clean.
Doing her hair, humming. VOGLIO E NON VORREI. No. VORREI E NON. Looking Doing her hair, humming. VOGLIO E NON VORREI. No. VORREI E NON. Looking
at the tips of her hairs to see if they are split. MI TREMA UN POCO IL. at the tips of her hairs to see if they are split. MI TREMA UN POCO IL.
Beautiful on that TRE her voice is: weeping tone. A thrush. A throstle. Beautiful on that TRE her voice is: weeping tone. A thrush. A throstle.
There is a word throstle that expresses that. There is a word throstle that expresses that.
His eyes passed lightly over Mr Power's goodlooking face. Greyish His eyes passed lightly over Mr Power's goodlooking face. Greyish
over the ears. MADAME: smiling. I smiled back. A smile goes a long way. over the ears. MADAME: smiling. I smiled back. A smile goes a long way.
Only politeness perhaps. Nice fellow. Who knows is that true about the Only politeness perhaps. Nice fellow. Who knows is that true about the
woman he keeps? Not pleasant for the wife. Yet they say, who was it told woman he keeps? Not pleasant for the wife. Yet they say, who was it told
me, there is no carnal. You would imagine that would get played out pretty me, there is no carnal. You would imagine that would get played out pretty
quick. Yes, it was Crofton met him one evening bringing her a pound of quick. Yes, it was Crofton met him one evening bringing her a pound of
rumpsteak. What is this she was? Barmaid in Jury's. Or the Moira, was it? rumpsteak. What is this she was? Barmaid in Jury's. Or the Moira, was it?
They passed under the hugecloaked Liberator's form. They passed under the hugecloaked Liberator's form.
Martin Cunningham nudged Mr Power. Martin Cunningham nudged Mr Power.
--Of the tribe of Reuben, he said. --Of the tribe of Reuben, he said.
A tall blackbearded figure, bent on a stick, stumping round the corner A tall blackbearded figure, bent on a stick, stumping round the corner
of Elvery's Elephant house, showed them a curved hand open on his spine. of Elvery's Elephant house, showed them a curved hand open on his spine.
--In all his pristine beauty, Mr Power said. --In all his pristine beauty, Mr Power said.
Mr Dedalus looked after the stumping figure and said mildly: Mr Dedalus looked after the stumping figure and said mildly:
--The devil break the hasp of your back! --The devil break the hasp of your back!
Mr Power, collapsing in laughter, shaded his face from the window as Mr Power, collapsing in laughter, shaded his face from the window as
the carriage passed Gray's statue. the carriage passed Gray's statue.
--We have all been there, Martin Cunningham said broadly. --We have all been there, Martin Cunningham said broadly.
His eyes met Mr Bloom's eyes. He caressed his beard, adding: His eyes met Mr Bloom's eyes. He caressed his beard, adding:
--Well, nearly all of us. --Well, nearly all of us.
Mr Bloom began to speak with sudden eagerness to his companions' faces. Mr Bloom began to speak with sudden eagerness to his companions' faces.
--That's an awfully good one that's going the rounds about Reuben J and --That's an awfully good one that's going the rounds about Reuben J and
the son. the son.
--About the boatman? Mr Power asked. --About the boatman? Mr Power asked.
--Yes. Isn't it awfully good? --Yes. Isn't it awfully good?
--What is that? Mr Dedalus asked. I didn't hear it. --What is that? Mr Dedalus asked. I didn't hear it.
--There was a girl in the case, Mr Bloom began, and he determined to send --There was a girl in the case, Mr Bloom began, and he determined to send
him to the Isle of Man out of harm's way but when they were both ... him to the Isle of Man out of harm's way but when they were both ...
--What? Mr Dedalus asked. That confirmed bloody hobbledehoy is it? --What? Mr Dedalus asked. That confirmed bloody hobbledehoy is it?
--Yes, Mr Bloom said. They were both on the way to the boat and he tried --Yes, Mr Bloom said. They were both on the way to the boat and he tried
to drown ... to drown ...
--Drown Barabbas! Mr Dedalus cried. I wish to Christ he did! --Drown Barabbas! Mr Dedalus cried. I wish to Christ he did!
Mr Power sent a long laugh down his shaded nostrils. Mr Power sent a long laugh down his shaded nostrils.
--No, Mr Bloom said, the son himself ... --No, Mr Bloom said, the son himself ...
Martin Cunningham thwarted his speech rudely: Martin Cunningham thwarted his speech rudely:
--Reuben and the son were piking it down the quay next the river on their --Reuben and the son were piking it down the quay next the river on their
way to the Isle of Man boat and the young chiseller suddenly got loose and way to the Isle of Man boat and the young chiseller suddenly got loose and
over the wall with him into the Liffey. over the wall with him into the Liffey.
--For God's sake! Mr Dedalus exclaimed in fright. Is he dead? --For God's sake! Mr Dedalus exclaimed in fright. Is he dead?
--Dead! Martin Cunningham cried. Not he! A boatman got a pole and --Dead! Martin Cunningham cried. Not he! A boatman got a pole and
fished him out by the slack of the breeches and he was landed up to the fished him out by the slack of the breeches and he was landed up to the
father on the quay more dead than alive. Half the town was there. father on the quay more dead than alive. Half the town was there.
--Yes, Mr Bloom said. But the funny part is ... --Yes, Mr Bloom said. But the funny part is ...
--And Reuben J, Martin Cunningham said, gave the boatman a florin for --And Reuben J, Martin Cunningham said, gave the boatman a florin for
saving his son's life. saving his son's life.
A stifled sigh came from under Mr Power's hand. A stifled sigh came from under Mr Power's hand.
--O, he did, Martin Cunningham affirmed. Like a hero. A silver florin. --O, he did, Martin Cunningham affirmed. Like a hero. A silver florin.
--Isn't it awfully good? Mr Bloom said eagerly. --Isn't it awfully good? Mr Bloom said eagerly.
--One and eightpence too much, Mr Dedalus said drily. --One and eightpence too much, Mr Dedalus said drily.
Mr Power's choked laugh burst quietly in the carriage. Mr Power's choked laugh burst quietly in the carriage.
Nelson's pillar. Nelson's pillar.
--Eight plums a penny! Eight for a penny! --Eight plums a penny! Eight for a penny!
--We had better look a little serious, Martin Cunningham said. --We had better look a little serious, Martin Cunningham said.
Mr Dedalus sighed. Mr Dedalus sighed.
--Ah then indeed, he said, poor little Paddy wouldn't grudge us a laugh. --Ah then indeed, he said, poor little Paddy wouldn't grudge us a laugh.
Many a good one he told himself. Many a good one he told himself.
--The Lord forgive me! Mr Power said, wiping his wet eyes with his --The Lord forgive me! Mr Power said, wiping his wet eyes with his
fingers. Poor Paddy! I little thought a week ago when I saw him last and fingers. Poor Paddy! I little thought a week ago when I saw him last and
he was in his usual health that I'd be driving after him like this. He's he was in his usual health that I'd be driving after him like this. He's
gone from us. gone from us.
--As decent a little man as ever wore a hat, Mr Dedalus said. He went --As decent a little man as ever wore a hat, Mr Dedalus said. He went
very suddenly. very suddenly.
--Breakdown, Martin Cunningham said. Heart. --Breakdown, Martin Cunningham said. Heart.
He tapped his chest sadly. He tapped his chest sadly.
Blazing face: redhot. Too much John Barleycorn. Cure for a red Blazing face: redhot. Too much John Barleycorn. Cure for a red
nose. Drink like the devil till it turns adelite. A lot of money he spent nose. Drink like the devil till it turns adelite. A lot of money he spent
colouring it. colouring it.
Mr Power gazed at the passing houses with rueful apprehension. Mr Power gazed at the passing houses with rueful apprehension.
--He had a sudden death, poor fellow, he said. --He had a sudden death, poor fellow, he said.
--The best death, Mr Bloom said. --The best death, Mr Bloom said.
Their wide open eyes looked at him. Their wide open eyes looked at him.
--No suffering, he said. A moment and all is over. Like dying in sleep. --No suffering, he said. A moment and all is over. Like dying in sleep.
No-one spoke. No-one spoke.
Dead side of the street this. Dull business by day, land agents, Dead side of the street this. Dull business by day, land agents,
temperance hotel, Falconer's railway guide, civil service college, Gill's, temperance hotel, Falconer's railway guide, civil service college, Gill's,
catholic club, the industrious blind. Why? Some reason. Sun or wind. At catholic club, the industrious blind. Why? Some reason. Sun or wind. At
night too. Chummies and slaveys. Under the patronage of the late Father night too. Chummies and slaveys. Under the patronage of the late Father
Mathew. Foundation stone for Parnell. Breakdown. Heart. Mathew. Foundation stone for Parnell. Breakdown. Heart.
White horses with white frontlet plumes came round the Rotunda White horses with white frontlet plumes came round the Rotunda
corner, galloping. A tiny coffin flashed by. In a hurry to bury. A corner, galloping. A tiny coffin flashed by. In a hurry to bury. A
mourning coach. Unmarried. Black for the married. Piebald for bachelors. mourning coach. Unmarried. Black for the married. Piebald for bachelors.
Dun for a nun. Dun for a nun.
--Sad, Martin Cunningham said. A child. --Sad, Martin Cunningham said. A child.
A dwarf's face, mauve and wrinkled like little Rudy's was. Dwarf's A dwarf's face, mauve and wrinkled like little Rudy's was. Dwarf's
body, weak as putty, in a whitelined deal box. Burial friendly society body, weak as putty, in a whitelined deal box. Burial friendly society
pays. Penny a week for a sod of turf. Our. Little. Beggar. Baby. pays. Penny a week for a sod of turf. Our. Little. Beggar. Baby.
Meant nothing. Mistake of nature. If it's healthy it's from the mother. Meant nothing. Mistake of nature. If it's healthy it's from the mother.
If not from the man. Better luck next time. If not from the man. Better luck next time.
--Poor little thing, Mr Dedalus said. It's well out of it. --Poor little thing, Mr Dedalus said. It's well out of it.
The carriage climbed more slowly the hill of Rutland square. Rattle The carriage climbed more slowly the hill of Rutland square. Rattle
his bones. Over the stones. Only a pauper. Nobody owns. his bones. Over the stones. Only a pauper. Nobody owns.
--In the midst of life, Martin Cunningham said. --In the midst of life, Martin Cunningham said.
--But the worst of all, Mr Power said, is the man who takes his own life. --But the worst of all, Mr Power said, is the man who takes his own life.
Martin Cunningham drew out his watch briskly, coughed and put it back. Martin Cunningham drew out his watch briskly, coughed and put it back.
--The greatest disgrace to have in the family, Mr Power added. --The greatest disgrace to have in the family, Mr Power added.
--Temporary insanity, of course, Martin Cunningham said decisively. We --Temporary insanity, of course, Martin Cunningham said decisively. We
must take a charitable view of it. must take a charitable view of it.
--They say a man who does it is a coward, Mr Dedalus said. --They say a man who does it is a coward, Mr Dedalus said.
--It is not for us to judge, Martin Cunningham said. --It is not for us to judge, Martin Cunningham said.
Mr Bloom, about to speak, closed his lips again. Martin Cunningham's Mr Bloom, about to speak, closed his lips again. Martin Cunningham's
large eyes. Looking away now. Sympathetic human man he is. Intelligent. large eyes. Looking away now. Sympathetic human man he is. Intelligent.
Like Shakespeare's face. Always a good word to say. They have no Like Shakespeare's face. Always a good word to say. They have no
mercy on that here or infanticide. Refuse christian burial. They mercy on that here or infanticide. Refuse christian burial. They
used to drive a stake of wood through his heart in the grave. As if it used to drive a stake of wood through his heart in the grave. As if it
wasn't broken already. Yet sometimes they repent too late. Found in the wasn't broken already. Yet sometimes they repent too late. Found in the
riverbed clutching rushes. He looked at me. And that awful drunkard of a riverbed clutching rushes. He looked at me. And that awful drunkard of a
wife of his. Setting up house for her time after time and then pawning the wife of his. Setting up house for her time after time and then pawning the
furniture on him every Saturday almost. Leading him the life of the furniture on him every Saturday almost. Leading him the life of the
damned. Wear the heart out of a stone, that. Monday morning. Start afresh. damned. Wear the heart out of a stone, that. Monday morning. Start afresh.
Shoulder to the wheel. Lord, she must have looked a sight that night Shoulder to the wheel. Lord, she must have looked a sight that night
Dedalus told me he was in there. Drunk about the place and capering with Dedalus told me he was in there. Drunk about the place and capering with
Martin's umbrella. Martin's umbrella.
    AND THEY CALL ME THE JEWEL OF ASIA,     AND THEY CALL ME THE JEWEL OF ASIA,
    OF ASIA,     OF ASIA,
    THE GEISHA.     THE GEISHA.
He looked away from me. He knows. Rattle his bones. He looked away from me. He knows. Rattle his bones.
That afternoon of the inquest. The redlabelled bottle on the table. The That afternoon of the inquest. The redlabelled bottle on the table. The
room in the hotel with hunting pictures. Stuffy it was. Sunlight through room in the hotel with hunting pictures. Stuffy it was. Sunlight through
the slats of the Venetian blind. The coroner's sunlit ears, big and hairy. the slats of the Venetian blind. The coroner's sunlit ears, big and hairy.
Boots giving evidence. Thought he was asleep first. Then saw like yellow Boots giving evidence. Thought he was asleep first. Then saw like yellow
streaks on his face. Had slipped down to the foot of the bed. Verdict: streaks on his face. Had slipped down to the foot of the bed. Verdict:
overdose. Death by misadventure. The letter. For my son Leopold. overdose. Death by misadventure. The letter. For my son Leopold.
No more pain. Wake no more. Nobody owns. No more pain. Wake no more. Nobody owns.
The carriage rattled swiftly along Blessington street. Over the stones. The carriage rattled swiftly along Blessington street. Over the stones.
--We are going the pace, I think, Martin Cunningham said. --We are going the pace, I think, Martin Cunningham said.
--God grant he doesn't upset us on the road, Mr Power said. --God grant he doesn't upset us on the road, Mr Power said.
--I hope not, Martin Cunningham said. That will be a great race tomorrow --I hope not, Martin Cunningham said. That will be a great race tomorrow
in Germany. The Gordon Bennett. in Germany. The Gordon Bennett.
--Yes, by Jove, Mr Dedalus said. That will be worth seeing, faith. --Yes, by Jove, Mr Dedalus said. That will be worth seeing, faith.
As they turned into Berkeley street a streetorgan near the Basin sent As they turned into Berkeley street a streetorgan near the Basin sent
over and after them a rollicking rattling song of the halls. Has anybody over and after them a rollicking rattling song of the halls. Has anybody
here seen Kelly? Kay ee double ell wy. Dead March from SAUL. He's as bad here seen Kelly? Kay ee double ell wy. Dead March from SAUL. He's as bad
as old Antonio.  He left me on my ownio.  Pirouette!  The MATER as old Antonio.  He left me on my ownio.  Pirouette!  The MATER
MISERICORDIAE. Eccles street. My house down there. Big place. Ward for MISERICORDIAE. Eccles street. My house down there. Big place. Ward for
incurables there. Very encouraging. Our Lady's Hospice for the dying. incurables there. Very encouraging. Our Lady's Hospice for the dying.
Deadhouse handy underneath. Where old Mrs Riordan died. They look Deadhouse handy underneath. Where old Mrs Riordan died. They look
terrible the women. Her feeding cup and rubbing her mouth with the terrible the women. Her feeding cup and rubbing her mouth with the
spoon. Then the screen round her bed for her to die. Nice young student spoon. Then the screen round her bed for her to die. Nice young student
that was dressed that bite the bee gave me. He's gone over to the lying-in that was dressed that bite the bee gave me. He's gone over to the lying-in
hospital they told me. From one extreme to the other. The carriage hospital they told me. From one extreme to the other. The carriage
galloped round a corner: stopped. galloped round a corner: stopped.
--What's wrong now? --What's wrong now?
A divided drove of branded cattle passed the windows, lowing, A divided drove of branded cattle passed the windows, lowing,
slouching by on padded hoofs, whisking their tails slowly on their clotted slouching by on padded hoofs, whisking their tails slowly on their clotted
bony croups. Outside them and through them ran raddled sheep bleating bony croups. Outside them and through them ran raddled sheep bleating
their fear. their fear.
--Emigrants, Mr Power said. --Emigrants, Mr Power said.
--Huuuh! the drover's voice cried, his switch sounding on their flanks. --Huuuh! the drover's voice cried, his switch sounding on their flanks.
Huuuh! out of that! Huuuh! out of that!
Thursday, of course. Tomorrow is killing day. Springers. Cuffe sold Thursday, of course. Tomorrow is killing day. Springers. Cuffe sold
them about twentyseven quid each. For Liverpool probably. Roastbeef for them about twentyseven quid each. For Liverpool probably. Roastbeef for
old England. They buy up all the juicy ones. And then the fifth quarter old England. They buy up all the juicy ones. And then the fifth quarter
lost: all that raw stuff, hide, hair, horns. Comes to a big thing in a lost: all that raw stuff, hide, hair, horns. Comes to a big thing in a
year. Dead meat trade. Byproducts of the slaughterhouses for tanneries, year. Dead meat trade. Byproducts of the slaughterhouses for tanneries,
soap, margarine. Wonder if that dodge works now getting dicky meat off the soap, margarine. Wonder if that dodge works now getting dicky meat off the
train at Clonsilla. train at Clonsilla.
The carriage moved on through the drove. The carriage moved on through the drove.
--I can't make out why the corporation doesn't run a tramline from the --I can't make out why the corporation doesn't run a tramline from the
parkgate to the quays, Mr Bloom said. All those animals could be taken in parkgate to the quays, Mr Bloom said. All those animals could be taken in
trucks down to the boats. trucks down to the boats.
--Instead of blocking up the thoroughfare, Martin Cunningham said. Quite --Instead of blocking up the thoroughfare, Martin Cunningham said. Quite
right. They ought to. right. They ought to.
--Yes, Mr Bloom said, and another thing I often thought, is to have --Yes, Mr Bloom said, and another thing I often thought, is to have
municipal funeral trams like they have in Milan, you know. Run the line municipal funeral trams like they have in Milan, you know. Run the line
out to the cemetery gates and have special trams, hearse and carriage and out to the cemetery gates and have special trams, hearse and carriage and
all. Don't you see what I mean? all. Don't you see what I mean?
--O, that be damned for a story, Mr Dedalus said. Pullman car and saloon --O, that be damned for a story, Mr Dedalus said. Pullman car and saloon
diningroom. diningroom.
--A poor lookout for Corny, Mr Power added. --A poor lookout for Corny, Mr Power added.
--Why? Mr Bloom asked, turning to Mr Dedalus. Wouldn't it be more --Why? Mr Bloom asked, turning to Mr Dedalus. Wouldn't it be more
decent than galloping two abreast? decent than galloping two abreast?
--Well, there's something in that, Mr Dedalus granted. --Well, there's something in that, Mr Dedalus granted.
--And, Martin Cunningham said, we wouldn't have scenes like that when --And, Martin Cunningham said, we wouldn't have scenes like that when
the hearse capsized round Dunphy's and upset the coffin on to the road. the hearse capsized round Dunphy's and upset the coffin on to the road.
--That was terrible, Mr Power's shocked face said, and the corpse fell --That was terrible, Mr Power's shocked face said, and the corpse fell
about the road. Terrible! about the road. Terrible!
--First round Dunphy's, Mr Dedalus said, nodding. Gordon Bennett cup. --First round Dunphy's, Mr Dedalus said, nodding. Gordon Bennett cup.
--Praises be to God! Martin Cunningham said piously. --Praises be to God! Martin Cunningham said piously.
Bom! Upset. A coffin bumped out on to the road. Burst open. Paddy Bom! Upset. A coffin bumped out on to the road. Burst open. Paddy
Dignam shot out and rolling over stiff in the dust in a brown habit too Dignam shot out and rolling over stiff in the dust in a brown habit too
large for him. Red face: grey now. Mouth fallen open. Asking what's up large for him. Red face: grey now. Mouth fallen open. Asking what's up
now. Quite right to close it. Looks horrid open. Then the insides now. Quite right to close it. Looks horrid open. Then the insides
decompose quickly. Much better to close up all the orifices. Yes, also. decompose quickly. Much better to close up all the orifices. Yes, also.
With wax. The sphincter loose. Seal up all. With wax. The sphincter loose. Seal up all.
--Dunphy's, Mr Power announced as the carriage turned right. --Dunphy's, Mr Power announced as the carriage turned right.
Dunphy's corner. Mourning coaches drawn up, drowning their grief. Dunphy's corner. Mourning coaches drawn up, drowning their grief.
A pause by the wayside. Tiptop position for a pub. Expect we'll pull up A pause by the wayside. Tiptop position for a pub. Expect we'll pull up
here on the way back to drink his health. Pass round the consolation. here on the way back to drink his health. Pass round the consolation.
Elixir of life. Elixir of life.
But suppose now it did happen. Would he bleed if a nail say cut him in But suppose now it did happen. Would he bleed if a nail say cut him in
the knocking about? He would and he wouldn't, I suppose. Depends on the knocking about? He would and he wouldn't, I suppose. Depends on
where. The circulation stops. Still some might ooze out of an artery. It where. The circulation stops. Still some might ooze out of an artery. It
would be better to bury them in red: a dark red. would be better to bury them in red: a dark red.
In silence they drove along Phibsborough road. An empty hearse In silence they drove along Phibsborough road. An empty hearse
trotted by, coming from the cemetery: looks relieved. trotted by, coming from the cemetery: looks relieved.
Crossguns bridge: the royal canal. Crossguns bridge: the royal canal.
Water rushed roaring through the sluices. A man stood on his Water rushed roaring through the sluices. A man stood on his
dropping barge, between clamps of turf. On the towpath by the lock a dropping barge, between clamps of turf. On the towpath by the lock a
slacktethered horse. Aboard of the BUGABU. slacktethered horse. Aboard of the BUGABU.
Their eyes watched him. On the slow weedy waterway he had floated Their eyes watched him. On the slow weedy waterway he had floated
on his raft coastward over Ireland drawn by a haulage rope past beds of on his raft coastward over Ireland drawn by a haulage rope past beds of
reeds, over slime, mudchoked bottles, carrion dogs. Athlone, Mullingar, reeds, over slime, mudchoked bottles, carrion dogs. Athlone, Mullingar,
more faintly that that they heard, each for herself alone, then each for more faintly that that they heard, each for herself alone, then each for
other, hearing the plash of waves, loudly, a silent roar. other, hearing the plash of waves, loudly, a silent roar.
Bronze by a weary gold, anear, afar, they listened. Bronze by a weary gold, anear, afar, they listened.
Her ear too is a shell, the peeping lobe there. Been to the seaside. Her ear too is a shell, the peeping lobe there. Been to the seaside.
Lovely seaside girls. Skin tanned raw. Should have put on coldcream first Lovely seaside girls. Skin tanned raw. Should have put on coldcream first
make it brown. Buttered toast. O and that lotion mustn't forget. Fever make it brown. Buttered toast. O and that lotion mustn't forget. Fever
in literary work. in literary work.
His eyes followed the high figure in homespun, beard and bicycle, a His eyes followed the high figure in homespun, beard and bicycle, a
listening woman at his side. Coming from the vegetarian. Only listening woman at his side. Coming from the vegetarian. Only
weggebobbles and fruit. Don't eat a beefsteak. If you do the eyes of that weggebobbles and fruit. Don't eat a beefsteak. If you do the eyes of that
cow will pursue you through all eternity. They say it's healthier. cow will pursue you through all eternity. They say it's healthier.
Windandwatery though. Tried it. Keep you on the run all day. Bad as a Windandwatery though. Tried it. Keep you on the run all day. Bad as a
bloater. Dreams all night. Why do they call that thing they gave me bloater. Dreams all night. Why do they call that thing they gave me
lamb and crannocks of corn and oblong eggs in great hundreds, various in lamb and crannocks of corn and oblong eggs in great hundreds, various in
size, the agate with this dun. size, the agate with this dun.
So we turned into Barney Kiernan's and there, sure enough, was the citizen So we turned into Barney Kiernan's and there, sure enough, was the citizen
up in the corner having a great confab with himself and that bloody up in the corner having a great confab with himself and that bloody
mangy mongrel, Garryowen, and he waiting for what the sky would drop mangy mongrel, Garryowen, and he waiting for what the sky would drop
in the way of drink. in the way of drink.
--There he is, says I, in his gloryhole, with his cruiskeen lawn and his --There he is, says I, in his gloryhole, with his cruiskeen lawn and his
load of papers, working for the cause. load of papers, working for the cause.
The bloody mongrel let a grouse out of him would give you the creeps.  Be The bloody mongrel let a grouse out of him would give you the creeps.  Be
a corporal work of mercy if someone would take the life of that a corporal work of mercy if someone would take the life of that
bloody dog. I'm told for a fact he ate a good part of the breeches off a bloody dog. I'm told for a fact he ate a good part of the breeches off a
constabulary man in Santry that came round one time with a blue paper constabulary man in Santry that came round one time with a blue paper
about a licence. about a licence.
--Stand and deliver, says he. --Stand and deliver, says he.
--That's all right, citizen, says Joe. Friends here. --That's all right, citizen, says Joe. Friends here.
--Pass, friends, says he. --Pass, friends, says he.
Then he rubs his hand in his eye and says he: Then he rubs his hand in his eye and says he:
--What's your opinion of the times? --What's your opinion of the times?
Doing the rapparee and Rory of the hill. But, begob, Joe was equal to Doing the rapparee and Rory of the hill. But, begob, Joe was equal to
the occasion. the occasion.
--I think the markets are on a rise, says he, sliding his hand down his --I think the markets are on a rise, says he, sliding his hand down his
fork. fork.
So begob the citizen claps his paw on his knee and he says: So begob the citizen claps his paw on his knee and he says:
--Foreign wars is the cause of it. --Foreign wars is the cause of it.
And says Joe, sticking his thumb in his pocket: And says Joe, sticking his thumb in his pocket:
--It's the Russians wish to tyrannise. --It's the Russians wish to tyrannise.
--Arrah, give over your bloody codding, Joe, says I. I've a thirst on me I --Arrah, give over your bloody codding, Joe, says I. I've a thirst on me I
wouldn't sell for half a crown. wouldn't sell for half a crown.
--Give it a name, citizen, says Joe. --Give it a name, citizen, says Joe.
--Wine of the country, says he. --Wine of the country, says he.
--What's yours? says Joe. --What's yours? says Joe.
--Ditto MacAnaspey, says I. --Ditto MacAnaspey, says I.
--Three pints, Terry, says Joe. And how's the old heart, citizen? says he. --Three pints, Terry, says Joe. And how's the old heart, citizen? says he.
--Never better, A CHARA, says he. What Garry? Are we going to win? Eh? --Never better, A CHARA, says he. What Garry? Are we going to win? Eh?
And with that he took the bloody old towser by the scruff of the neck And with that he took the bloody old towser by the scruff of the neck
and, by Jesus, he near throttled him. and, by Jesus, he near throttled him.
The figure seated on a large boulder at the foot of a round tower The figure seated on a large boulder at the foot of a round tower
was that of a broadshouldered deepchested stronglimbed frankeyed was that of a broadshouldered deepchested stronglimbed frankeyed
redhaired freelyfreckled shaggybearded widemouthed largenosed redhaired freelyfreckled shaggybearded widemouthed largenosed
longheaded deepvoiced barekneed brawnyhanded hairylegged ruddyfaced longheaded deepvoiced barekneed brawnyhanded hairylegged ruddyfaced
sinewyarmed hero. From shoulder to shoulder he measured several ells and sinewyarmed hero. From shoulder to shoulder he measured several ells and
his rocklike mountainous knees were covered, as was likewise the rest of his rocklike mountainous knees were covered, as was likewise the rest of
his body wherever visible, with a strong growth of tawny prickly hair in his body wherever visible, with a strong growth of tawny prickly hair in
hue and toughness similar to the mountain gorse (ULEX EUROPEUS). The hue and toughness similar to the mountain gorse (ULEX EUROPEUS). The
widewinged nostrils, from which bristles of the same tawny hue projected, widewinged nostrils, from which bristles of the same tawny hue projected,
were of such capaciousness that within their cavernous obscurity the were of such capaciousness that within their cavernous obscurity the
fieldlark might easily have lodged her nest. The eyes in which a tear and fieldlark might easily have lodged her nest. The eyes in which a tear and
a smile strove ever for the mastery were of the dimensions of a goodsized a smile strove ever for the mastery were of the dimensions of a goodsized
cauliflower. A powerful current of warm breath issued at regular intervals cauliflower. A powerful current of warm breath issued at regular intervals
from the profound cavity of his mouth while in rhythmic resonance the from the profound cavity of his mouth while in rhythmic resonance the
loud strong hale reverberations of his formidable heart thundered loud strong hale reverberations of his formidable heart thundered
rumblingly causing the ground, the summit of the lofty tower and the still rumblingly causing the ground, the summit of the lofty tower and the still
loftier walls of the cave to vibrate and tremble. loftier walls of the cave to vibrate and tremble.
He wore a long unsleeved garment of recently flayed oxhide reaching to the He wore a long unsleeved garment of recently flayed oxhide reaching to the
knees in a loose kilt and this was bound about his middle by a girdle of knees in a loose kilt and this was bound about his middle by a girdle of
plaited straw and rushes. Beneath this he wore trews of deerskin, roughly plaited straw and rushes. Beneath this he wore trews of deerskin, roughly
stitched with gut. His nether extremities were encased in high Balbriggan stitched with gut. His nether extremities were encased in high Balbriggan
buskins dyed in lichen purple, the feet being shod with brogues of salted buskins dyed in lichen purple, the feet being shod with brogues of salted
cowhide laced with the windpipe of the same beast. From his girdle hung a cowhide laced with the windpipe of the same beast. From his girdle hung a
Sea: the wife of William T Redmayne of a son. How's that, eh? Wright and Sea: the wife of William T Redmayne of a son. How's that, eh? Wright and
Flint, Vincent and Gillett to Rotha Marion daughter of Rosa and the late Flint, Vincent and Gillett to Rotha Marion daughter of Rosa and the late
George Alfred Gillett, 179 Clapham road, Stockwell, Playwood and George Alfred Gillett, 179 Clapham road, Stockwell, Playwood and
Ridsdale at Saint Jude's, Kensington by the very reverend Dr Forrest, dean Ridsdale at Saint Jude's, Kensington by the very reverend Dr Forrest, dean
of Worcester. Eh? Deaths. Bristow, at Whitehall lane, London: Carr, Stoke of Worcester. Eh? Deaths. Bristow, at Whitehall lane, London: Carr, Stoke
Newington, of gastritis and heart disease: Cockburn, at the Moat house, Newington, of gastritis and heart disease: Cockburn, at the Moat house,
Chepstow ... Chepstow ...
--I know that fellow, says Joe, from bitter experience. --I know that fellow, says Joe, from bitter experience.
--Cockburn. Dimsey, wife of David Dimsey, late of the admiralty: Miller, --Cockburn. Dimsey, wife of David Dimsey, late of the admiralty: Miller,
Tottenham, aged eightyfive: Welsh, June 12, at 35 Canning street, Tottenham, aged eightyfive: Welsh, June 12, at 35 Canning street,
Liverpool, Isabella Helen. How's that for a national press, eh, my brown Liverpool, Isabella Helen. How's that for a national press, eh, my brown
son! How's that for Martin Murphy, the Bantry jobber? son! How's that for Martin Murphy, the Bantry jobber?
--Ah, well, says Joe, handing round the boose. Thanks be to God they had --Ah, well, says Joe, handing round the boose. Thanks be to God they had
the start of us. Drink that, citizen. the start of us. Drink that, citizen.
--I will, says he, honourable person. --I will, says he, honourable person.
--Health, Joe, says I. And all down the form. --Health, Joe, says I. And all down the form.
Ah! Ow! Don't be talking! I was blue mouldy for the want of that Ah! Ow! Don't be talking! I was blue mouldy for the want of that
pint. Declare to God I could hear it hit the pit of my stomach with a pint. Declare to God I could hear it hit the pit of my stomach with a
click. click.
And lo, as they quaffed their cup of joy, a godlike messenger came And lo, as they quaffed their cup of joy, a godlike messenger came
swiftly in, radiant as the eye of heaven, a comely youth and behind him swiftly in, radiant as the eye of heaven, a comely youth and behind him
there passed an elder of noble gait and countenance, bearing the sacred there passed an elder of noble gait and countenance, bearing the sacred
scrolls of law and with him his lady wife a dame of peerless lineage, scrolls of law and with him his lady wife a dame of peerless lineage,
fairest of her race. fairest of her race.
Little Alf Bergan popped in round the door and hid behind Barney's Little Alf Bergan popped in round the door and hid behind Barney's
snug, squeezed up with the laughing. And who was sitting up there in the snug, squeezed up with the laughing. And who was sitting up there in the
corner that I hadn't seen snoring drunk blind to the world only Bob Doran. corner that I hadn't seen snoring drunk blind to the world only Bob Doran.
I didn't know what was up and Alf kept making signs out of the door. And I didn't know what was up and Alf kept making signs out of the door. And
begob what was it only that bloody old pantaloon Denis Breen in his begob what was it only that bloody old pantaloon Denis Breen in his
bathslippers with two bloody big books tucked under his oxter and the wife bathslippers with two bloody big books tucked under his oxter and the wife
hotfoot after him, unfortunate wretched woman, trotting like a poodle. I hotfoot after him, unfortunate wretched woman, trotting like a poodle. I
thought Alf would split. thought Alf would split.
--Look at him, says he. Breen. He's traipsing all round Dublin with a --Look at him, says he. Breen. He's traipsing all round Dublin with a
postcard someone sent him with U. p: up on it to take a li ... postcard someone sent him with U. p: up on it to take a li ...
And he doubled up. And he doubled up.
--Take a what? says I. --Take a what? says I.
--Libel action, says he, for ten thousand pounds. --Libel action, says he, for ten thousand pounds.
--O hell! says I. --O hell! says I.
The bloody mongrel began to growl that'd put the fear of God in you The bloody mongrel began to growl that'd put the fear of God in you
seeing something was up but the citizen gave him a kick in the ribs. seeing something was up but the citizen gave him a kick in the ribs.
--BI I DHO HUSHT, says he. --BI I DHO HUSHT, says he.
--Who? says Joe. --Who? says Joe.
--Breen, says Alf. He was in John Henry Menton's and then he went round --Breen, says Alf. He was in John Henry Menton's and then he went round
to Collis and Ward's and then Tom Rochford met him and sent him round to Collis and Ward's and then Tom Rochford met him and sent him round
to the subsheriff's for a lark. O God, I've a pain laughing. U. p: up. The to the subsheriff's for a lark. O God, I've a pain laughing. U. p: up. The
long fellow gave him an eye as good as a process and now the bloody old long fellow gave him an eye as good as a process and now the bloody old
lunatic is gone round to Green street to look for a G man. lunatic is gone round to Green street to look for a G man.
--When is long John going to hang that fellow in Mountjoy? says Joe. --When is long John going to hang that fellow in Mountjoy? says Joe.
--Bergan, says Bob Doran, waking up. Is that Alf Bergan? --Bergan, says Bob Doran, waking up. Is that Alf Bergan?
--Yes, says Alf. Hanging? Wait till I show you. Here, Terry, give us a --Yes, says Alf. Hanging? Wait till I show you. Here, Terry, give us a
pony. That bloody old fool! Ten thousand pounds. You should have seen long pony. That bloody old fool! Ten thousand pounds. You should have seen long
John's eye. U. p ... John's eye. U. p ...
And he started laughing. And he started laughing.
--Who are you laughing at? says Bob Doran. Is that Bergan? --Who are you laughing at? says Bob Doran. Is that Bergan?
--Hurry up, Terry boy, says Alf. --Hurry up, Terry boy, says Alf.
Terence O'Ryan heard him and straightway brought him a crystal Terence O'Ryan heard him and straightway brought him a crystal
cup full of the foamy ebon ale which the noble twin brothers Bungiveagh cup full of the foamy ebon ale which the noble twin brothers Bungiveagh
and Bungardilaun brew ever in their divine alevats, cunning as the sons of and Bungardilaun brew ever in their divine alevats, cunning as the sons of
deathless Leda. For they garner the succulent berries of the hop and mass deathless Leda. For they garner the succulent berries of the hop and mass
and sift and bruise and brew them and they mix therewith sour juices and and sift and bruise and brew them and they mix therewith sour juices and
bring the must to the sacred fire and cease not night or day from their bring the must to the sacred fire and cease not night or day from their
toil, those cunning brothers, lords of the vat. toil, those cunning brothers, lords of the vat.
Then did you, chivalrous Terence, hand forth, as to the manner born, Then did you, chivalrous Terence, hand forth, as to the manner born,
that nectarous beverage and you offered the crystal cup to him that that nectarous beverage and you offered the crystal cup to him that
thirsted, the soul of chivalry, in beauty akin to the immortals. thirsted, the soul of chivalry, in beauty akin to the immortals.
But he, the young chief of the O'Bergan's, could ill brook to be outdone But he, the young chief of the O'Bergan's, could ill brook to be outdone
in generous deeds but gave therefor with gracious gesture a testoon in generous deeds but gave therefor with gracious gesture a testoon
of costliest bronze. Thereon embossed in excellent smithwork was seen the of costliest bronze. Thereon embossed in excellent smithwork was seen the
image of a queen of regal port, scion of the house of Brunswick, Victoria image of a queen of regal port, scion of the house of Brunswick, Victoria
her name, Her Most Excellent Majesty, by grace of God of the United her name, Her Most Excellent Majesty, by grace of God of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British dominions beyond Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British dominions beyond
the sea, queen, defender of the faith, Empress of India, even she, who the sea, queen, defender of the faith, Empress of India, even she, who
bore rule, a victress over many peoples, the wellbeloved, for they knew bore rule, a victress over many peoples, the wellbeloved, for they knew
and loved her from the rising of the sun to the going down thereof, the and loved her from the rising of the sun to the going down thereof, the
pale, the dark, the ruddy and the ethiop. pale, the dark, the ruddy and the ethiop.
--What's that bloody freemason doing, says the citizen, prowling up and --What's that bloody freemason doing, says the citizen, prowling up and
down outside? down outside?
--What's that? says Joe. --What's that? says Joe.
--Here you are, says Alf, chucking out the rhino. Talking about hanging, --Here you are, says Alf, chucking out the rhino. Talking about hanging,
I'll show you something you never saw. Hangmen's letters. Look at here. I'll show you something you never saw. Hangmen's letters. Look at here.
So he took a bundle of wisps of letters and envelopes out of his pocket. So he took a bundle of wisps of letters and envelopes out of his pocket.
--Are you codding? says I. --Are you codding? says I.
--Honest injun, says Alf. Read them. --Honest injun, says Alf. Read them.
So Joe took up the letters. So Joe took up the letters.
--Who are you laughing at? says Bob Doran. --Who are you laughing at? says Bob Doran.
So I saw there was going to be a bit of a dust Bob's a queer chap So I saw there was going to be a bit of a dust Bob's a queer chap
when the porter's up in him so says I just to make talk: when the porter's up in him so says I just to make talk:
--How's Willy Murray those times, Alf? --How's Willy Murray those times, Alf?
--I don't know, says Alf I saw him just now in Capel street with Paddy --I don't know, says Alf I saw him just now in Capel street with Paddy
Dignam. Only I was running after that ... Dignam. Only I was running after that ...
--You what? says Joe, throwing down the letters. With who? --You what? says Joe, throwing down the letters. With who?
--With Dignam, says Alf. --With Dignam, says Alf.
--Is it Paddy? says Joe. --Is it Paddy? says Joe.
--Yes, says Alf. Why? --Yes, says Alf. Why?
--Don't you know he's dead? says Joe. --Don't you know he's dead? says Joe.
--Paddy Dignam dead! says Alf. --Paddy Dignam dead! says Alf.
--Ay, says Joe. --Ay, says Joe.
--Sure I'm after seeing him not five minutes ago, says Alf, as plain as a --Sure I'm after seeing him not five minutes ago, says Alf, as plain as a
pikestaff. pikestaff.
--Who's dead? says Bob Doran. --Who's dead? says Bob Doran.
--You saw his ghost then, says Joe, God between us and harm. --You saw his ghost then, says Joe, God between us and harm.
--What? says Alf. Good Christ, only five ... What? ... And Willy Murray --What? says Alf. Good Christ, only five ... What? ... And Willy Murray
with him, the two of them there near whatdoyoucallhim's ... What? with him, the two of them there near whatdoyoucallhim's ... What?
Dignam dead? Dignam dead?
--What about Dignam? says Bob Doran. Who's talking about... ? --What about Dignam? says Bob Doran. Who's talking about... ?
--Dead! says Alf. He's no more dead than you are. --Dead! says Alf. He's no more dead than you are.
--Maybe so, says Joe. They took the liberty of burying him this morning --Maybe so, says Joe. They took the liberty of burying him this morning
anyhow. anyhow.
--Paddy? says Alf. --Paddy? says Alf.
--Ay, says Joe. He paid the debt of nature, God be merciful to him. --Ay, says Joe. He paid the debt of nature, God be merciful to him.
--Good Christ! says Alf. --Good Christ! says Alf.
Begob he was what you might call flabbergasted. Begob he was what you might call flabbergasted.
In the darkness spirit hands were felt to flutter and when prayer by In the darkness spirit hands were felt to flutter and when prayer by
tantras had been directed to the proper quarter a faint but increasing tantras had been directed to the proper quarter a faint but increasing
luminosity of ruby light became gradually visible, the apparition of the luminosity of ruby light became gradually visible, the apparition of the
etheric double being particularly lifelike owing to the discharge of jivic etheric double being particularly lifelike owing to the discharge of jivic
rays from the crown of the head and face. Communication was effected rays from the crown of the head and face. Communication was effected
through the pituitary body and also by means of the orangefiery and through the pituitary body and also by means of the orangefiery and
scarlet rays emanating from the sacral region and solar plexus. Questioned scarlet rays emanating from the sacral region and solar plexus. Questioned
by his earthname as to his whereabouts in the heavenworld he stated that by his earthname as to his whereabouts in the heavenworld he stated that
he was now on the path of pr l ya or return but was still submitted to he was now on the path of pr l ya or return but was still submitted to
trial at the hands of certain bloodthirsty entities on the lower astral trial at the hands of certain bloodthirsty entities on the lower astral
levels. In reply to a question as to his first sensations in the great levels. In reply to a question as to his first sensations in the great
divide beyond he stated that previously he had seen as in a glass darkly divide beyond he stated that previously he had seen as in a glass darkly
but that those who had passed over had summit possibilities of atmic but that those who had passed over had summit possibilities of atmic
development opened up to them. Interrogated as to whether life there development opened up to them. Interrogated as to whether life there
resembled our experience in the flesh he stated that he had heard from resembled our experience in the flesh he stated that he had heard from
more favoured beings now in the spirit that their abodes were equipped more favoured beings now in the spirit that their abodes were equipped
with every modern home comfort such as talafana, alavatar, hatakalda, with every modern home comfort such as talafana, alavatar, hatakalda,
wataklasat and that the highest adepts were steeped in waves of volupcy wataklasat and that the highest adepts were steeped in waves of volupcy
of the very purest nature. Having requested a quart of buttermilk this was of the very purest nature. Having requested a quart of buttermilk this was
brought and evidently afforded relief. Asked if he had any message brought and evidently afforded relief. Asked if he had any message
for the living he exhorted all who were still at the wrong side of Maya for the living he exhorted all who were still at the wrong side of Maya
to acknowledge the true path for it was reported in devanic circles that to acknowledge the true path for it was reported in devanic circles that
Mars and Jupiter were out for mischief on the eastern angle where the Mars and Jupiter were out for mischief on the eastern angle where the
ram has power. It was then queried whether there were any special ram has power. It was then queried whether there were any special
desires on the part of the defunct and the reply was: WE GREET YOU, desires on the part of the defunct and the reply was: WE GREET YOU,
FRIENDS OF EARTH, WHO ARE STILL IN THE BODY. MIND C. K. DOESN'T PILE IT FRIENDS OF EARTH, WHO ARE STILL IN THE BODY. MIND C. K. DOESN'T PILE IT
ON. It was ascertained that the reference was to Mr Cornelius Kelleher, ON. It was ascertained that the reference was to Mr Cornelius Kelleher,
manager of Messrs H. J. O'Neill's popular funeral establishment, a manager of Messrs H. J. O'Neill's popular funeral establishment, a
personal friend of the defunct, who had been responsible for the carrying personal friend of the defunct, who had been responsible for the carrying
out of the interment arrangements. Before departing he requested that it out of the interment arrangements. Before departing he requested that it
should be told to his dear son Patsy that the other boot which he had been should be told to his dear son Patsy that the other boot which he had been
looking for was at present under the commode in the return room and that looking for was at present under the commode in the return room and that
the pair should be sent to Cullen's to be soled only as the heels were the pair should be sent to Cullen's to be soled only as the heels were
still good. He stated that this had greatly perturbed his peace of mind in still good. He stated that this had greatly perturbed his peace of mind in
the other region and earnestly requested that his desire should be made the other region and earnestly requested that his desire should be made
known. known.
Assurances were given that the matter would be attended to and it was Assurances were given that the matter would be attended to and it was
intimated that this had given satisfaction. intimated that this had given satisfaction.
He is gone from mortal haunts: O'Dignam, sun of our morning. Fleet He is gone from mortal haunts: O'Dignam, sun of our morning. Fleet
was his foot on the bracken: Patrick of the beamy brow. Wail, Banba, with was his foot on the bracken: Patrick of the beamy brow. Wail, Banba, with
your wind: and wail, O ocean, with your whirlwind. your wind: and wail, O ocean, with your whirlwind.
--There he is again, says the citizen, staring out. --There he is again, says the citizen, staring out.
--Who? says I. --Who? says I.
--Bloom, says he. He's on point duty up and down there for the last ten --Bloom, says he. He's on point duty up and down there for the last ten
minutes. minutes.
And, begob, I saw his physog do a peep in and then slidder off again. And, begob, I saw his physog do a peep in and then slidder off again.
Little Alf was knocked bawways. Faith, he was. Little Alf was knocked bawways. Faith, he was.
--Good Christ! says he. I could have sworn it was him. --Good Christ! says he. I could have sworn it was him.
And says Bob Doran, with the hat on the back of his poll, lowest And says Bob Doran, with the hat on the back of his poll, lowest
blackguard in Dublin when he's under the influence: blackguard in Dublin when he's under the influence:
--Who said Christ is good? --Who said Christ is good?
--I beg your parsnips, says Alf. --I beg your parsnips, says Alf.
--Is that a good Christ, says Bob Doran, to take away poor little Willy --Is that a good Christ, says Bob Doran, to take away poor little Willy
Dignam? Dignam?
--Ah, well, says Alf, trying to pass it off. He's over all his troubles. --Ah, well, says Alf, trying to pass it off. He's over all his troubles.
But Bob Doran shouts out of him. But Bob Doran shouts out of him.
--He's a bloody ruffian, I say, to take away poor little Willy Dignam. --He's a bloody ruffian, I say, to take away poor little Willy Dignam.
Terry came down and tipped him the wink to keep quiet, that they Terry came down and tipped him the wink to keep quiet, that they
didn't want that kind of talk in a respectable licensed premises. And Bob didn't want that kind of talk in a respectable licensed premises. And Bob
Doran starts doing the weeps about Paddy Dignam, true as you're there. Doran starts doing the weeps about Paddy Dignam, true as you're there.
--The finest man, says he, snivelling, the finest purest character. --The finest man, says he, snivelling, the finest purest character.
The tear is bloody near your eye. Talking through his bloody hat. The tear is bloody near your eye. Talking through his bloody hat.
Fitter for him go home to the little sleepwalking bitch he married, Fitter for him go home to the little sleepwalking bitch he married,
Mooney, the bumbailiff's daughter, mother kept a kip in Hardwicke street, Mooney, the bumbailiff's daughter, mother kept a kip in Hardwicke street,
that used to be stravaging about the landings Bantam Lyons told me that that used to be stravaging about the landings Bantam Lyons told me that
was stopping there at two in the morning without a stitch on her, exposing was stopping there at two in the morning without a stitch on her, exposing
her person, open to all comers, fair field and no favour. her person, open to all comers, fair field and no favour.
--The noblest, the truest, says he. And he's gone, poor little Willy, poor --The noblest, the truest, says he. And he's gone, poor little Willy, poor
little Paddy Dignam. little Paddy Dignam.
And mournful and with a heavy heart he bewept the extinction of that And mournful and with a heavy heart he bewept the extinction of that
beam of heaven. beam of heaven.
Old Garryowen started growling again at Bloom that was skeezing Old Garryowen started growling again at Bloom that was skeezing
round the door. round the door.
--Come in, come on, he won't eat you, says the citizen. --Come in, come on, he won't eat you, says the citizen.
So Bloom slopes in with his cod's eye on the dog and he asks Terry So Bloom slopes in with his cod's eye on the dog and he asks Terry
was Martin Cunningham there. was Martin Cunningham there.
--O, Christ M'Keown, says Joe, reading one of the letters. Listen to this, --O, Christ M'Keown, says Joe, reading one of the letters. Listen to this,
will you? will you?
And he starts reading out one. And he starts reading out one.
                7 HUNTER STREET, LIVERPOOL.                 7 HUNTER STREET, LIVERPOOL.
        TO THE HIGH SHERIFF OF DUBLIN, DUBLIN.         TO THE HIGH SHERIFF OF DUBLIN, DUBLIN.
    HONOURED SIR I BEG TO OFFER MY SERVICES IN THE ABOVEMENTIONED PAINFUL     HONOURED SIR I BEG TO OFFER MY SERVICES IN THE ABOVEMENTIONED PAINFUL
CASE I HANGED JOE GANN IN BOOTLE JAIL ON THE 12 OF FEBUARY 1900 AND I CASE I HANGED JOE GANN IN BOOTLE JAIL ON THE 12 OF FEBUARY 1900 AND I
HANGED ... HANGED ...
--Show us, Joe, says I. --Show us, Joe, says I.
-- ... PRIVATE ARTHUR CHACE FOR FOWL MURDER OF JESSIE TILSIT IN -- ... PRIVATE ARTHUR CHACE FOR FOWL MURDER OF JESSIE TILSIT IN
PENTONVILLE PRISON AND I WAS ASSISTANT WHEN ... PENTONVILLE PRISON AND I WAS ASSISTANT WHEN ...
--Jesus, says I. --Jesus, says I.
-- ... BILLINGTON EXECUTED THE AWFUL MURDERER TOAD SMITH ... -- ... BILLINGTON EXECUTED THE AWFUL MURDERER TOAD SMITH ...
The citizen made a grab at the letter. The citizen made a grab at the letter.
--Hold hard, says Joe, I HAVE A SPECIAL NACK OF PUTTING THE NOOSE ONCE IN --Hold hard, says Joe, I HAVE A SPECIAL NACK OF PUTTING THE NOOSE ONCE IN
HE CAN'T GET OUT HOPING TO BE FAVOURED I REMAIN, HONOURED SIR, MY TERMS IS HE CAN'T GET OUT HOPING TO BE FAVOURED I REMAIN, HONOURED SIR, MY TERMS IS
FIVE GINNEES. FIVE GINNEES.
            H. RUMBOLD,             H. RUMBOLD,
                MASTER BARBER.                 MASTER BARBER.
--And a barbarous bloody barbarian he is too, says the citizen. --And a barbarous bloody barbarian he is too, says the citizen.
--And the dirty scrawl of the wretch, says Joe. Here, says he, take them --And the dirty scrawl of the wretch, says Joe. Here, says he, take them
to hell out of my sight, Alf. Hello, Bloom, says he, what will you have? to hell out of my sight, Alf. Hello, Bloom, says he, what will you have?
So they started arguing about the point, Bloom saying he wouldn't So they started arguing about the point, Bloom saying he wouldn't
and he couldn't and excuse him no offence and all to that and then he said and he couldn't and excuse him no offence and all to that and then he said
well he'd just take a cigar. Gob, he's a prudent member and no mistake. well he'd just take a cigar. Gob, he's a prudent member and no mistake.
--Give us one of your prime stinkers, Terry, says Joe. --Give us one of your prime stinkers, Terry, says Joe.
And Alf was telling us there was one chap sent in a mourning card And Alf was telling us there was one chap sent in a mourning card
with a black border round it. with a black border round it.
--They're all barbers, says he, from the black country that would hang --They're all barbers, says he, from the black country that would hang
their own fathers for five quid down and travelling expenses. their own fathers for five quid down and travelling expenses.
And he was telling us there's two fellows waiting below to pull his And he was telling us there's two fellows waiting below to pull his
heels down when he gets the drop and choke him properly and then they heels down when he gets the drop and choke him properly and then they
chop up the rope after and sell the bits for a few bob a skull. chop up the rope after and sell the bits for a few bob a skull.
In the dark land they bide, the vengeful knights of the razor. Their In the dark land they bide, the vengeful knights of the razor. Their
deadly coil they grasp: yea, and therein they lead to Erebus whatsoever deadly coil they grasp: yea, and therein they lead to Erebus whatsoever
wight hath done a deed of blood for I will on nowise suffer it even so wight hath done a deed of blood for I will on nowise suffer it even so
saith the Lord. saith the Lord.
So they started talking about capital punishment and of course Bloom So they started talking about capital punishment and of course Bloom
comes out with the why and the wherefore and all the codology of the comes out with the why and the wherefore and all the codology of the
business and the old dog smelling him all the time I'm told those jewies business and the old dog smelling him all the time I'm told those jewies
does have a sort of a queer odour coming off them for dogs about I don't does have a sort of a queer odour coming off them for dogs about I don't
know what all deterrent effect and so forth and so on. know what all deterrent effect and so forth and so on.
--There's one thing it hasn't a deterrent effect on, says Alf. --There's one thing it hasn't a deterrent effect on, says Alf.
--What's that? says Joe. --What's that? says Joe.
--The poor bugger's tool that's being hanged, says Alf. --The poor bugger's tool that's being hanged, says Alf.
--That so? says Joe. --That so? says Joe.
--God's truth, says Alf. I heard that from the head warder that was in --God's truth, says Alf. I heard that from the head warder that was in
Kilmainham when they hanged Joe Brady, the invincible. He told me when Kilmainham when they hanged Joe Brady, the invincible. He told me when
was under his frigid exterior notwithstanding the little misadventure was under his frigid exterior notwithstanding the little misadventure
mentioned between the cup and the lip: what's bred in the bone. Still as mentioned between the cup and the lip: what's bred in the bone. Still as
regards return. You were a lucky dog if they didn't set the terrier at regards return. You were a lucky dog if they didn't set the terrier at
you directly you got back. Then a lot of shillyshally usually followed, you directly you got back. Then a lot of shillyshally usually followed,
Tom for and Dick and Harry against. And then, number one, you came up Tom for and Dick and Harry against. And then, number one, you came up
against the man in possession and had to produce your credentials like against the man in possession and had to produce your credentials like
the claimant in the Tichborne case, Roger Charles Tichborne, BELLA was the claimant in the Tichborne case, Roger Charles Tichborne, BELLA was
the boat's name to the best of his recollection he, the heir, went down the boat's name to the best of his recollection he, the heir, went down
in as the evidence went to show and there was a tattoo mark too in Indian in as the evidence went to show and there was a tattoo mark too in Indian
ink, lord Bellew was it, as he might very easily have picked up the ink, lord Bellew was it, as he might very easily have picked up the
details from some pal on board ship and then, when got up to tally with details from some pal on board ship and then, when got up to tally with
the description given, introduce himself with: EXCUSE ME, MY NAME IS SO the description given, introduce himself with: EXCUSE ME, MY NAME IS SO
AND SO or some such commonplace remark. A more prudent course, as Bloom AND SO or some such commonplace remark. A more prudent course, as Bloom
said to the not over effusive, in fact like the distinguished personage said to the not over effusive, in fact like the distinguished personage
under discussion beside him, would have been to sound the lie of the land under discussion beside him, would have been to sound the lie of the land
first. first.
--That bitch, that English whore, did for him, the shebeen proprietor --That bitch, that English whore, did for him, the shebeen proprietor
commented. She put the first nail in his coffin. commented. She put the first nail in his coffin.
--Fine lump of a woman all the same, the SOI-DISANT townclerk Henry --Fine lump of a woman all the same, the SOI-DISANT townclerk Henry
Campbell remarked, and plenty of her. She loosened many a man's thighs. I Campbell remarked, and plenty of her. She loosened many a man's thighs. I
seen her picture in a barber's. The husband was a captain or an officer. seen her picture in a barber's. The husband was a captain or an officer.
--Ay, Skin-the-Goat amusingly added, he was and a cottonball one. --Ay, Skin-the-Goat amusingly added, he was and a cottonball one.
This gratuitous contribution of a humorous character occasioned a fair This gratuitous contribution of a humorous character occasioned a fair
amount of laughter among his ENTOURAGE. As regards Bloom he, without the amount of laughter among his ENTOURAGE. As regards Bloom he, without the
faintest suspicion of a smile, merely gazed in the direction of the door faintest suspicion of a smile, merely gazed in the direction of the door
and reflected upon the historic story which had aroused extraordinary and reflected upon the historic story which had aroused extraordinary
interest at the time when the facts, to make matters worse, were made interest at the time when the facts, to make matters worse, were made
public with the usual affectionate letters that passed between them full public with the usual affectionate letters that passed between them full
of sweet nothings. First it was strictly Platonic till nature intervened of sweet nothings. First it was strictly Platonic till nature intervened
and an attachment sprang up between them till bit by bit matters came to and an attachment sprang up between them till bit by bit matters came to
a climax and the matter became the talk of the town till the staggering a climax and the matter became the talk of the town till the staggering
blow came as a welcome intelligence to not a few evildisposed, however, blow came as a welcome intelligence to not a few evildisposed, however,
who were resolved upon encompassing his downfall though the thing was who were resolved upon encompassing his downfall though the thing was
public property all along though not to anything like the sensational public property all along though not to anything like the sensational
extent that it subsequently blossomed into. Since their names were extent that it subsequently blossomed into. Since their names were
coupled, though, since he was her declared favourite, where was the coupled, though, since he was her declared favourite, where was the
particular necessity to proclaim it to the rank and file from the particular necessity to proclaim it to the rank and file from the
housetops, the fact, namely, that he had shared her bedroom which came housetops, the fact, namely, that he had shared her bedroom which came
out in the witnessbox on oath when a thrill went through the packed court out in the witnessbox on oath when a thrill went through the packed court
literally electrifying everybody in the shape of witnesses swearing to literally electrifying everybody in the shape of witnesses swearing to
having witnessed him on such and such a particular date in the act of having witnessed him on such and such a particular date in the act of
scrambling out of an upstairs apartment with the assistance of a ladder scrambling out of an upstairs apartment with the assistance of a ladder
in night apparel, having gained admittance in the same fashion, a fact in night apparel, having gained admittance in the same fashion, a fact
the weeklies, addicted to the lubric a little, simply coined shoals of the weeklies, addicted to the lubric a little, simply coined shoals of
money out of. Whereas the simple fact of the case was it was simply a money out of. Whereas the simple fact of the case was it was simply a
case of the husband not being up to the scratch, with nothing in common case of the husband not being up to the scratch, with nothing in common
between them beyond the name, and then a real man arriving on the scene, between them beyond the name, and then a real man arriving on the scene,
strong to the verge of weakness, falling a victim to her siren charms and strong to the verge of weakness, falling a victim to her siren charms and
forgetting home ties, the usual sequel, to bask in the loved one's forgetting home ties, the usual sequel, to bask in the loved one's
smiles. The eternal question of the life connubial, needless to say, smiles. The eternal question of the life connubial, needless to say,
cropped up. Can real love, supposing there happens to be another chap in cropped up. Can real love, supposing there happens to be another chap in
the case, exist between married folk? Poser. Though it was no concern of the case, exist between married folk? Poser. Though it was no concern of
theirs absolutely if he regarded her with affection, carried away by a theirs absolutely if he regarded her with affection, carried away by a
wave of folly. A magnificent specimen of manhood he was truly augmented wave of folly. A magnificent specimen of manhood he was truly augmented
obviously by gifts of a high order, as compared with the other military obviously by gifts of a high order, as compared with the other military
supernumerary that is (who was just the usual everyday FAREWELL, MY supernumerary that is (who was just the usual everyday FAREWELL, MY
GALLANT CAPTAIN kind of an individual in the light dragoons, the l8th GALLANT CAPTAIN kind of an individual in the light dragoons, the l8th
hussars to be accurate) and inflammable doubtless (the fallen leader, hussars to be accurate) and inflammable doubtless (the fallen leader,
that is, not the other) in his own peculiar way which she of course, that is, not the other) in his own peculiar way which she of course,
woman, quickly perceived as highly likely to carve his way to fame which woman, quickly perceived as highly likely to carve his way to fame which
he almost bid fair to do till the priests and ministers of the gospel as he almost bid fair to do till the priests and ministers of the gospel as
a whole, his erstwhile staunch adherents, and his beloved evicted tenants a whole, his erstwhile staunch adherents, and his beloved evicted tenants
for whom he had done yeoman service in the rural parts of the country by for whom he had done yeoman service in the rural parts of the country by
taking up the cudgels on their behalf in a way that exceeded their most taking up the cudgels on their behalf in a way that exceeded their most
sanguine expectations, very effectually cooked his matrimonial goose, sanguine expectations, very effectually cooked his matrimonial goose,
thereby heaping coals of fire on his head much in the same way as the thereby heaping coals of fire on his head much in the same way as the
fabled ass's kick. Looking back now in a retrospective kind of fabled ass's kick. Looking back now in a retrospective kind of
arrangement all seemed a kind of dream. And then coming back was the arrangement all seemed a kind of dream. And then coming back was the
worst thing you ever did because it went without saying you would feel worst thing you ever did because it went without saying you would feel
out of place as things always moved with the times. Why, as he reflected, out of place as things always moved with the times. Why, as he reflected,
Irishtown strand, a locality he had not been in for quite a number of Irishtown strand, a locality he had not been in for quite a number of
years looked different somehow since, as it happened, he went to reside years looked different somehow since, as it happened, he went to reside
on the north side. North or south, however, it was just the wellknown on the north side. North or south, however, it was just the wellknown
case of hot passion, pure and simple, upsetting the applecart with a case of hot passion, pure and simple, upsetting the applecart with a
vengeance and just bore out the very thing he was saying as she also was vengeance and just bore out the very thing he was saying as she also was
Spanish or half so, types that wouldn't do things by halves, passionate Spanish or half so, types that wouldn't do things by halves, passionate
abandon of the south, casting every shred of decency to the winds. abandon of the south, casting every shred of decency to the winds.
--Just bears out what I was saying, he, with glowing bosom said to --Just bears out what I was saying, he, with glowing bosom said to
Stephen, about blood and the sun. And, if I don't greatly mistake she was Stephen, about blood and the sun. And, if I don't greatly mistake she was
Spanish too. Spanish too.
--The king of Spain's daughter, Stephen answered, adding something or --The king of Spain's daughter, Stephen answered, adding something or
other rather muddled about farewell and adieu to you Spanish onions and other rather muddled about farewell and adieu to you Spanish onions and
the first land called the Deadman and from Ramhead to Scilly was so and the first land called the Deadman and from Ramhead to Scilly was so and
so many. so many.
--Was she? Bloom ejaculated, surprised though not astonished by any --Was she? Bloom ejaculated, surprised though not astonished by any
means, I never heard that rumour before. Possible, especially there, it means, I never heard that rumour before. Possible, especially there, it
was as she lived there. So, Spain. was as she lived there. So, Spain.
Carefully avoiding a book in his pocket SWEETS OF, which reminded him by Carefully avoiding a book in his pocket SWEETS OF, which reminded him by
the by of that Cap l street library book out of date, he took out his the by of that Cap l street library book out of date, he took out his
pocketbook and, turning over the various contents it contained rapidly pocketbook and, turning over the various contents it contained rapidly
finally he. finally he.
--Do you consider, by the by, he said, thoughtfully selecting a faded --Do you consider, by the by, he said, thoughtfully selecting a faded
photo which he laid on the table, that a Spanish type? photo which he laid on the table, that a Spanish type?
Stephen, obviously addressed, looked down on the photo showing a large Stephen, obviously addressed, looked down on the photo showing a large
sized lady with her fleshy charms on evidence in an open fashion as she sized lady with her fleshy charms on evidence in an open fashion as she
was in the full bloom of womanhood in evening dress cut ostentatiously was in the full bloom of womanhood in evening dress cut ostentatiously
low for the occasion to give a liberal display of bosom, with more than low for the occasion to give a liberal display of bosom, with more than
vision of breasts, her full lips parted and some perfect teeth, standing vision of breasts, her full lips parted and some perfect teeth, standing
near, ostensibly with gravity, a piano on the rest of which was IN OLD near, ostensibly with gravity, a piano on the rest of which was IN OLD
MADRID, a ballad, pretty in its way, which was then all the vogue. Her MADRID, a ballad, pretty in its way, which was then all the vogue. Her
(the lady's) eyes, dark, large, looked at Stephen, about to smile about (the lady's) eyes, dark, large, looked at Stephen, about to smile about
something to be admired, Lafayette of Westmoreland street, Dublin's something to be admired, Lafayette of Westmoreland street, Dublin's
premier photographic artist, being responsible for the esthetic premier photographic artist, being responsible for the esthetic
execution. execution.
--Mrs Bloom, my wife the PRIMA DONNA Madam Marion Tweedy, Bloom --Mrs Bloom, my wife the PRIMA DONNA Madam Marion Tweedy, Bloom
indicated. Taken a few years since. In or about ninety six. Very like her indicated. Taken a few years since. In or about ninety six. Very like her
then. then.
Beside the young man he looked also at the photo of the lady now his 1440 Beside the young man he looked also at the photo of the lady now his 1440
legal wife who, he intimated, was the accomplished daughter of Major legal wife who, he intimated, was the accomplished daughter of Major
Brian Tweedy and displayed at an early age remarkable proficiency as a Brian Tweedy and displayed at an early age remarkable proficiency as a
singer having even made her bow to the public when her years numbered singer having even made her bow to the public when her years numbered
barely sweet sixteen. As for the face it was a speaking likeness in barely sweet sixteen. As for the face it was a speaking likeness in
expression but it did not do justice to her figure which came in for a expression but it did not do justice to her figure which came in for a
lot of notice usually and which did not come out to the best advantage in lot of notice usually and which did not come out to the best advantage in
that getup. She could without difficulty, he said, have posed for the that getup. She could without difficulty, he said, have posed for the
ensemble, not to dwell on certain opulent curves of the. He dwelt, being ensemble, not to dwell on certain opulent curves of the. He dwelt, being
a bit of an artist in his spare time, on the female form in general a bit of an artist in his spare time, on the female form in general
developmentally because, as it so happened, no later than that afternoon developmentally because, as it so happened, no later than that afternoon
he had seen those Grecian statues, 1450 perfectly developed as works of he had seen those Grecian statues, 1450 perfectly developed as works of
art, in the National Museum. Marble could give the original, shoulders, art, in the National Museum. Marble could give the original, shoulders,
back, all the symmetry, all the rest. Yes, puritanisme, it does though back, all the symmetry, all the rest. Yes, puritanisme, it does though
Saint Joseph's sovereign thievery alors (Bandez!) Figne toi trop. Whereas Saint Joseph's sovereign thievery alors (Bandez!) Figne toi trop. Whereas
no photo could because it simply wasn't art in a word. no photo could because it simply wasn't art in a word.
The spirit moving him he would much have liked to follow Jack Tar's good The spirit moving him he would much have liked to follow Jack Tar's good
example and leave the likeness there for a very few minutes to speak for example and leave the likeness there for a very few minutes to speak for
itself on the plea he so that the other could drink in the beauty for itself on the plea he so that the other could drink in the beauty for
himself, her stage presence being, frankly, a treat in itself which the himself, her stage presence being, frankly, a treat in itself which the
camera could not at all do justice to. But it was scarcely professional camera could not at all do justice to. But it was scarcely professional
etiquette so. Though it was a warm pleasant sort of a night now yet etiquette so. Though it was a warm pleasant sort of a night now yet
wonderfully cool for the season considering, for sunshine after storm. wonderfully cool for the season considering, for sunshine after storm.
And he did feel a kind of need there and then to follow suit like a kind And he did feel a kind of need there and then to follow suit like a kind
of inward voice and satisfy a possible need by moving a motion. of inward voice and satisfy a possible need by moving a motion.
Nevertheless he sat tight just viewing the slightly soiled photo creased Nevertheless he sat tight just viewing the slightly soiled photo creased
by opulent curves, none the worse for wear however, and looked away by opulent curves, none the worse for wear however, and looked away
thoughtfully with the intention of not further increasing the other's thoughtfully with the intention of not further increasing the other's
possible embarrassment while gauging her symmetry of heaving EMBONPOINT. possible embarrassment while gauging her symmetry of heaving EMBONPOINT.
In fact the slight soiling was only an added charm like the case of linen In fact the slight soiling was only an added charm like the case of linen
slightly soiled, good as new, much better in fact with the starch out. slightly soiled, good as new, much better in fact with the starch out.
Suppose she was gone when he? I looked for the lamp which she told me Suppose she was gone when he? I looked for the lamp which she told me
came into his mind but merely as a passing fancy of his because he then came into his mind but merely as a passing fancy of his because he then
recollected the morning littered bed etcetera and the book about Ruby recollected the morning littered bed etcetera and the book about Ruby
with met him pike hoses (SIC) in it which must have fell down with met him pike hoses (SIC) in it which must have fell down
sufficiently appropriately beside the domestic chamberpot with apologies sufficiently appropriately beside the domestic chamberpot with apologies
to Lindley Murray. to Lindley Murray.
The vicinity of the young man he certainly relished, educated, DISTINGUE The vicinity of the young man he certainly relished, educated, DISTINGUE
and impulsive into the bargain, far and away the pick of the bunch though and impulsive into the bargain, far and away the pick of the bunch though
you wouldn't think he had it in him yet you would. Besides he said the you wouldn't think he had it in him yet you would. Besides he said the
picture was handsome which, say what you like, it was though at the picture was handsome which, say what you like, it was though at the
moment she was distinctly stouter. And why not? An awful lot of moment she was distinctly stouter. And why not? An awful lot of
makebelieve went on about that sort of thing involving a lifelong slur makebelieve went on about that sort of thing involving a lifelong slur
with the usual splash page of gutterpress about the same old matrimonial with the usual splash page of gutterpress about the same old matrimonial
tangle alleging misconduct with professional golfer or the newest stage tangle alleging misconduct with professional golfer or the newest stage
favourite instead of being honest and aboveboard about the whole favourite instead of being honest and aboveboard about the whole
business. How they were fated to meet and an attachment sprang up between business. How they were fated to meet and an attachment sprang up between
the two so that their names were coupled in the public eye was told in the two so that their names were coupled in the public eye was told in
court with letters containing the habitual mushy and compromising court with letters containing the habitual mushy and compromising
expressions leaving no loophole to show that they openly cohabited two or expressions leaving no loophole to show that they openly cohabited two or
three times a week at some wellknown seaside hotel and relations, when three times a week at some wellknown seaside hotel and relations, when
the thing ran its normal course, became in due course intimate. Then the the thing ran its normal course, became in due course intimate. Then the
decree NISI and the King's proctor tries to show cause why and, he decree NISI and the King's proctor tries to show cause why and, he
failing to quash it, NISI was made absolute. But as for that the two failing to quash it, NISI was made absolute. But as for that the two
misdemeanants, wrapped up as they largely were in one another, could misdemeanants, wrapped up as they largely were in one another, could
safely afford to ignore it as they very largely did till the matter was safely afford to ignore it as they very largely did till the matter was
put in the hands of a solicitor who filed a petition for the party put in the hands of a solicitor who filed a petition for the party
wronged in due course. He, B, enjoyed the distinction of being close to wronged in due course. He, B, enjoyed the distinction of being close to
Erin's uncrowned king in the flesh when the thing occurred on the Erin's uncrowned king in the flesh when the thing occurred on the
historic FRACAS when the fallen leader's, who notoriously stuck to his historic FRACAS when the fallen leader's, who notoriously stuck to his
guns to the last drop even when clothed in the mantle of adultery, guns to the last drop even when clothed in the mantle of adultery,
(leader's) trusty henchmen to the number of ten or a dozen or possibly (leader's) trusty henchmen to the number of ten or a dozen or possibly
even more than that penetrated into the printing works of the even more than that penetrated into the printing works of the
INSUPPRESSIBLE or no it was UNITED IRELAND (a by no means by the by INSUPPRESSIBLE or no it was UNITED IRELAND (a by no means by the by
appropriate appellative) and broke up the typecases with hammers or appropriate appellative) and broke up the typecases with hammers or
something like that all on account of some scurrilous effusions from the something like that all on account of some scurrilous effusions from the
facile pens of the O'Brienite scribes at the usual mudslinging occupation facile pens of the O'Brienite scribes at the usual mudslinging occupation
reflecting on the erstwhile tribune's private morals. Though palpably a reflecting on the erstwhile tribune's private morals. Though palpably a
radically altered man he was still a commanding figure though carelessly radically altered man he was still a commanding figure though carelessly
garbed as usual with that look of settled purpose which went a long way garbed as usual with that look of settled purpose which went a long way
with the shillyshallyers till they discovered to their vast discomfiture with the shillyshallyers till they discovered to their vast discomfiture
that their idol had feet of clay after placing him upon a pedestal which that their idol had feet of clay after placing him upon a pedestal which
she, however, was the first to perceive. As those were particularly hot she, however, was the first to perceive. As those were particularly hot
times in the general hullaballoo Bloom sustained a minor injury from a times in the general hullaballoo Bloom sustained a minor injury from a
nasty prod of some chap's elbow in the crowd that of course congregated nasty prod of some chap's elbow in the crowd that of course congregated
lodging some place about the pit of the stomach, fortunately not of a lodging some place about the pit of the stomach, fortunately not of a
grave character. His hat (Parnell's) a silk one was inadvertently knocked grave character. His hat (Parnell's) a silk one was inadvertently knocked
off and, as a matter of strict history, Bloom was the man who picked it off and, as a matter of strict history, Bloom was the man who picked it
up in the crush after witnessing the occurrence meaning to return it to up in the crush after witnessing the occurrence meaning to return it to
him (and return it to him he did with the utmost celerity) who panting him (and return it to him he did with the utmost celerity) who panting
and hatless and whose thoughts were miles away from his hat at the time and hatless and whose thoughts were miles away from his hat at the time
all the same being a gentleman born with a stake in the country he, as a all the same being a gentleman born with a stake in the country he, as a
matter of fact, having gone into it more for the kudos of the thing than matter of fact, having gone into it more for the kudos of the thing than
anything else, what's bred in the bone instilled into him in infancy at anything else, what's bred in the bone instilled into him in infancy at
his mother's knee in the shape of knowing what good form was came out at his mother's knee in the shape of knowing what good form was came out at
once because he turned round to the donor and thanked him with perfect once because he turned round to the donor and thanked him with perfect
APLOMB, saying: THANK YOU, SIR, though in a very different tone of voice APLOMB, saying: THANK YOU, SIR, though in a very different tone of voice
from the ornament of the legal profession whose headgear Bloom also set from the ornament of the legal profession whose headgear Bloom also set
to rights earlier in the course of the day, history repeating itself with to rights earlier in the course of the day, history repeating itself with
a difference, after the burial of a mutual friend when they had left him a difference, after the burial of a mutual friend when they had left him
alone in his glory after the grim task of having committed his remains to alone in his glory after the grim task of having committed his remains to
the grave. the grave.
On the other hand what incensed him more inwardly was the blatant jokes On the other hand what incensed him more inwardly was the blatant jokes
of the cabman and so on who passed it all off as a jest, laughing 1530 of the cabman and so on who passed it all off as a jest, laughing 1530
immoderately, pretending to understand everything, the why and the immoderately, pretending to understand everything, the why and the
wherefore, and in reality not knowing their own minds, it being a case wherefore, and in reality not knowing their own minds, it being a case
for the two parties themselves unless it ensued that the legitimate for the two parties themselves unless it ensued that the legitimate
husband happened to be a party to it owing to some anonymous letter from husband happened to be a party to it owing to some anonymous letter from
the usual boy Jones, who happened to come across them at the crucial the usual boy Jones, who happened to come across them at the crucial
moment in a loving position locked in one another's arms, drawing moment in a loving position locked in one another's arms, drawing
attention to their illicit proceedings and leading up to a domestic attention to their illicit proceedings and leading up to a domestic
rumpus and the erring fair one begging forgiveness of her lord and master rumpus and the erring fair one begging forgiveness of her lord and master
upon her knees and promising to sever the connection and not receive his upon her knees and promising to sever the connection and not receive his
visits any more if only the aggrieved husband would overlook the matter visits any more if only the aggrieved husband would overlook the matter
and let bygones be bygones with tears in her eyes though possibly with and let bygones be bygones with tears in her eyes though possibly with
her tongue in her fair cheek at the same time as quite possibly there her tongue in her fair cheek at the same time as quite possibly there
were several others. He personally, being of a sceptical bias, believed were several others. He personally, being of a sceptical bias, believed
and didn't make the smallest bones about saying so either that man or men and didn't make the smallest bones about saying so either that man or men
in the plural were always hanging around on the waiting list about a in the plural were always hanging around on the waiting list about a
lady, even supposing she was the best wife in the world and they got on lady, even supposing she was the best wife in the world and they got on
fairly well together for the sake of argument, when, neglecting her fairly well together for the sake of argument, when, neglecting her
duties, she chose to be tired of wedded life and was on for a little duties, she chose to be tired of wedded life and was on for a little
flutter in polite debauchery to press their attentions on her with flutter in polite debauchery to press their attentions on her with
improper intent, the upshot being that her affections centred on another, improper intent, the upshot being that her affections centred on another,
the cause of many LIAISONS between still attractive married women getting the cause of many LIAISONS between still attractive married women getting
on for fair and forty and younger men, no doubt as several famous cases on for fair and forty and younger men, no doubt as several famous cases
of feminine infatuation proved up to the hilt. of feminine infatuation proved up to the hilt.
It was a thousand pities a young fellow, blessed with an allowance of It was a thousand pities a young fellow, blessed with an allowance of
brains as his neighbour obviously was, should waste his valuable time brains as his neighbour obviously was, should waste his valuable time
with profligate women who might present him with a nice dose to last him with profligate women who might present him with a nice dose to last him
his lifetime. In the nature of single blessedness he would one day take his lifetime. In the nature of single blessedness he would one day take
unto himself a wife when Miss Right came on the scene but in the interim unto himself a wife when Miss Right came on the scene but in the interim
ladies' society was a CONDITIO SINE QUA NON though he had the gravest ladies' society was a CONDITIO SINE QUA NON though he had the gravest
possible doubts, not that he wanted in the smallest to pump Stephen about possible doubts, not that he wanted in the smallest to pump Stephen about
Miss Ferguson (who was very possibly the particular lodestar who brought Miss Ferguson (who was very possibly the particular lodestar who brought
him down to Irishtown so early in the morning), as to whether he would him down to Irishtown so early in the morning), as to whether he would
find much satisfaction basking in the boy and girl courtship idea and the find much satisfaction basking in the boy and girl courtship idea and the
company of smirking misses without a penny to their names bi or triweekly company of smirking misses without a penny to their names bi or triweekly
with the orthodox preliminary canter of complimentplaying and walking out with the orthodox preliminary canter of complimentplaying and walking out
leading up to fond lovers' ways and flowers and chocs. To think of him leading up to fond lovers' ways and flowers and chocs. To think of him
house and homeless, rooked by some landlady worse than any stepmother, house and homeless, rooked by some landlady worse than any stepmother,
was really too bad at his age. The queer suddenly things he popped out was really too bad at his age. The queer suddenly things he popped out
with attracted the elder man who was several years the other's senior or with attracted the elder man who was several years the other's senior or
like his father but something substantial he certainly ought to eat even like his father but something substantial he certainly ought to eat even
were it only an eggflip made on unadulterated maternal nutriment or, were it only an eggflip made on unadulterated maternal nutriment or,
failing that, the homely Humpty Dumpty boiled. failing that, the homely Humpty Dumpty boiled.
--At what o'clock did you dine? he questioned of the slim form and tired --At what o'clock did you dine? he questioned of the slim form and tired
though unwrinkled face. though unwrinkled face.
--Some time yesterday, Stephen said. --Some time yesterday, Stephen said.
--Yesterday! exclaimed Bloom till he remembered it was already tomorrow --Yesterday! exclaimed Bloom till he remembered it was already tomorrow
Friday. Ah, you mean it's after twelve! Friday. Ah, you mean it's after twelve!
--The day before yesterday, Stephen said, improving on himself. --The day before yesterday, Stephen said, improving on himself.
Literally astounded at this piece of intelligence Bloom reflected. Though Literally astounded at this piece of intelligence Bloom reflected. Though
they didn't see eye to eye in everything a certain analogy there somehow they didn't see eye to eye in everything a certain analogy there somehow
was as if both their minds were travelling, so to speak, in the one train was as if both their minds were travelling, so to speak, in the one train
of thought. At his age when dabbling in politics roughly some score of of thought. At his age when dabbling in politics roughly some score of
years previously when he had been a QUASI aspirant to parliamentary years previously when he had been a QUASI aspirant to parliamentary
honours in the Buckshot Foster days he too recollected in retrospect honours in the Buckshot Foster days he too recollected in retrospect
(which was a source of keen satisfaction in itself) he had a sneaking (which was a source of keen satisfaction in itself) he had a sneaking
regard for those same ultra ideas. For instance when the evicted tenants regard for those same ultra ideas. For instance when the evicted tenants
question, then at its first inception, bulked largely in people's mind question, then at its first inception, bulked largely in people's mind
though, it goes without saying, not contributing a copper or pinning his though, it goes without saying, not contributing a copper or pinning his
faith absolutely to its dictums, some of which wouldn't exactly hold faith absolutely to its dictums, some of which wouldn't exactly hold
water, he at the outset in principle at all events was in thorough water, he at the outset in principle at all events was in thorough
sympathy with peasant possession as voicing the trend of modern opinion sympathy with peasant possession as voicing the trend of modern opinion
(a partiality, however, which, realising his mistake, he was subsequently (a partiality, however, which, realising his mistake, he was subsequently
partially cured of) and even was twitted with going a step farther than partially cured of) and even was twitted with going a step farther than
Michael Davitt in the striking views he at one time inculcated as a Michael Davitt in the striking views he at one time inculcated as a
backtothelander, which was one reason he strongly resented the innuendo backtothelander, which was one reason he strongly resented the innuendo
put upon him in so barefaced a fashion by our friend at the gathering of put upon him in so barefaced a fashion by our friend at the gathering of
the clans in Barney Kiernan's so that he, though often considerably the clans in Barney Kiernan's so that he, though often considerably
misunderstood and the least pugnacious of mortals, be it repeated, misunderstood and the least pugnacious of mortals, be it repeated,
departed from his customary habit to give him (metaphorically) one in the departed from his customary habit to give him (metaphorically) one in the
gizzard though, so far as politics themselves were concerned, he was only gizzard though, so far as politics themselves were concerned, he was only
too conscious of the casualties invariably resulting from propaganda and too conscious of the casualties invariably resulting from propaganda and
displays of mutual animosity and the misery and suffering it entailed as displays of mutual animosity and the misery and suffering it entailed as
a foregone conclusion on fine young fellows, chiefly, destruction of the a foregone conclusion on fine young fellows, chiefly, destruction of the
fittest, in a word. fittest, in a word.
Anyhow upon weighing up the pros and cons, getting on for one, as it was, Anyhow upon weighing up the pros and cons, getting on for one, as it was,
it was high time to be retiring for the night. The crux was it was a bit it was high time to be retiring for the night. The crux was it was a bit
risky to bring him home as eventualities might possibly ensue (somebody risky to bring him home as eventualities might possibly ensue (somebody
having a temper of her own sometimes) and spoil the hash altogether as on having a temper of her own sometimes) and spoil the hash altogether as on
the night he misguidedly brought home a dog (breed unknown) with a lame the night he misguidedly brought home a dog (breed unknown) with a lame
paw (not that the cases were either identical or the reverse though he paw (not that the cases were either identical or the reverse though he
had hurt his hand too) to Ontario Terrace as he very distinctly had hurt his hand too) to Ontario Terrace as he very distinctly
remembered, having been there, so to speak. On the other hand it was remembered, having been there, so to speak. On the other hand it was
altogether far and away too late for the Sandymount or Sandycove altogether far and away too late for the Sandymount or Sandycove
suggestion so that he was in some perplexity as to which of the two suggestion so that he was in some perplexity as to which of the two
alternatives. Everything pointed to the fact that it behoved him to avail alternatives. Everything pointed to the fact that it behoved him to avail
himself to the full of the opportunity, all things considered. His himself to the full of the opportunity, all things considered. His
initial impression was he was a shade standoffish or not over effusive initial impression was he was a shade standoffish or not over effusive
but it grew on him someway. For one thing he mightn't what you call jump but it grew on him someway. For one thing he mightn't what you call jump
at the idea, if approached, and what mostly worried him was he didn't at the idea, if approached, and what mostly worried him was he didn't
know how to lead up to it or word it exactly, supposing he did entertain know how to lead up to it or word it exactly, supposing he did entertain
the proposal, as it would afford him very great personal pleasure if he the proposal, as it would afford him very great personal pleasure if he
would allow him to help to put coin in his way or some wardrobe, if found would allow him to help to put coin in his way or some wardrobe, if found
suitable. At all events he wound up by concluding, eschewing for the suitable. At all events he wound up by concluding, eschewing for the
nonce hidebound precedent, a cup of Epps's cocoa and a shakedown for the nonce hidebound precedent, a cup of Epps's cocoa and a shakedown for the
night plus the use of a rug or two and overcoat doubled into a pillow at night plus the use of a rug or two and overcoat doubled into a pillow at
least he would be in safe hands and as warm as a toast on a trivet he least he would be in safe hands and as warm as a toast on a trivet he
failed to perceive any very vast amount of harm in that always with the failed to perceive any very vast amount of harm in that always with the
proviso no rumpus of any sort was kicked up. A move had to be made proviso no rumpus of any sort was kicked up. A move had to be made
because that merry old soul, the grasswidower in question who appeared to because that merry old soul, the grasswidower in question who appeared to
be glued to the spot, didn't appear in any particular hurry to wend his be glued to the spot, didn't appear in any particular hurry to wend his
way home to his dearly beloved Queenstown and it was highly likely some way home to his dearly beloved Queenstown and it was highly likely some
sponger's bawdyhouse of retired beauties where age was no bar off Sheriff sponger's bawdyhouse of retired beauties where age was no bar off Sheriff
street lower would be the best clue to that equivocal character's street lower would be the best clue to that equivocal character's
whereabouts for a few days to come, alternately racking their feelings whereabouts for a few days to come, alternately racking their feelings
(the mermaids') with sixchamber revolver anecdotes verging on the (the mermaids') with sixchamber revolver anecdotes verging on the
tropical calculated to freeze the marrow of anybody's bones and mauling tropical calculated to freeze the marrow of anybody's bones and mauling
their largesized charms betweenwhiles with rough and tumble gusto to the their largesized charms betweenwhiles with rough and tumble gusto to the
accompaniment of large potations of potheen and the usual blarney about accompaniment of large potations of potheen and the usual blarney about
himself for as to who he in reality was let x equal my right name and himself for as to who he in reality was let x equal my right name and
address, as Mr Algebra remarks PASSIM. At the same time he inwardly address, as Mr Algebra remarks PASSIM. At the same time he inwardly
chuckled over his gentle repartee to the blood and ouns champion about chuckled over his gentle repartee to the blood and ouns champion about
his god being a jew. People could put up with being bitten by a wolf but his god being a jew. People could put up with being bitten by a wolf but
what properly riled them was a bite from a sheep. The most vulnerable what properly riled them was a bite from a sheep. The most vulnerable
point too of tender Achilles. Your god was a jew. Because mostly they point too of tender Achilles. Your god was a jew. Because mostly they
appeared to imagine he came from Carrick-on-Shannon or somewhereabouts in appeared to imagine he came from Carrick-on-Shannon or somewhereabouts in
the county Sligo. the county Sligo.
--I propose, our hero eventually suggested after mature reflection while --I propose, our hero eventually suggested after mature reflection while
prudently pocketing her photo, as it's rather stuffy here you just come prudently pocketing her photo, as it's rather stuffy here you just come
home with me and talk things over. My diggings are quite close in the home with me and talk things over. My diggings are quite close in the
vicinity. You can't drink that stuff. Do you like cocoa? Wait. I'll just vicinity. You can't drink that stuff. Do you like cocoa? Wait. I'll just
pay this lot. pay this lot.
The best plan clearly being to clear out, the remainder being plain The best plan clearly being to clear out, the remainder being plain
sailing, he beckoned, while prudently pocketing the photo, to the keeper sailing, he beckoned, while prudently pocketing the photo, to the keeper
of the shanty who didn't seem to. of the shanty who didn't seem to.
--Yes, that's the best, he assured Stephen to whom for the matter of that --Yes, that's the best, he assured Stephen to whom for the matter of that
Brazen Head or him or anywhere else was all more or less. Brazen Head or him or anywhere else was all more or less.
All kinds of Utopian plans were flashing through his (B's) busy brain, All kinds of Utopian plans were flashing through his (B's) busy brain,
education (the genuine article), literature, journalism, prize titbits, education (the genuine article), literature, journalism, prize titbits,
up to date billing, concert tours in English watering resorts packed with up to date billing, concert tours in English watering resorts packed with
hydros and seaside theatres, turning money away, duets in Italian with hydros and seaside theatres, turning money away, duets in Italian with
the accent perfectly true to nature and a quantity of other things, no the accent perfectly true to nature and a quantity of other things, no
necessity, of course, to tell the world and his wife from the housetops necessity, of course, to tell the world and his wife from the housetops
about it, and a slice of luck. An opening was all was wanted. Because he about it, and a slice of luck. An opening was all was wanted. Because he
more than suspected he had his father's voice to bank his hopes on which more than suspected he had his father's voice to bank his hopes on which
it was quite on the cards he had so it would be just as well, by the way it was quite on the cards he had so it would be just as well, by the way
no harm, to trail the conversation in the direction of that particular no harm, to trail the conversation in the direction of that particular
red herring just to. red herring just to.
The cabby read out of the paper he had got hold of that the former The cabby read out of the paper he had got hold of that the former
viceroy, earl Cadogan, had presided at the cabdrivers' association dinner viceroy, earl Cadogan, had presided at the cabdrivers' association dinner
in London somewhere. Silence with a yawn or two accompanied this in London somewhere. Silence with a yawn or two accompanied this
thrilling announcement. Then the old specimen in the corner who appeared thrilling announcement. Then the old specimen in the corner who appeared
to have some spark of vitality left read out that sir Anthony MacDonnell to have some spark of vitality left read out that sir Anthony MacDonnell
had left Euston for the chief secretary's lodge or words to that effect. had left Euston for the chief secretary's lodge or words to that effect.
To which absorbing piece of intelligence echo answered why. To which absorbing piece of intelligence echo answered why.
--Give us a squint at that literature, grandfather, the ancient mariner --Give us a squint at that literature, grandfather, the ancient mariner
put in, manifesting some natural impatience. put in, manifesting some natural impatience.
--And welcome, answered the elderly party thus addressed. --And welcome, answered the elderly party thus addressed.
The sailor lugged out from a case he had a pair of greenish goggles which The sailor lugged out from a case he had a pair of greenish goggles which
he very slowly hooked over his nose and both ears. he very slowly hooked over his nose and both ears.
--Are you bad in the eyes? the sympathetic personage like the townclerk --Are you bad in the eyes? the sympathetic personage like the townclerk
queried. queried.
--Why, answered the seafarer with the tartan beard, who seemingly was a --Why, answered the seafarer with the tartan beard, who seemingly was a
bit of a literary cove in his own small way, staring out of seagreen bit of a literary cove in his own small way, staring out of seagreen
portholes as you might well describe them as, I uses goggles reading. portholes as you might well describe them as, I uses goggles reading.
Sand in the Red Sea done that. One time I could read a book in the dark, Sand in the Red Sea done that. One time I could read a book in the dark,
manner of speaking. THE ARABIAN NIGHTS ENTERTAINMENT was my favourite and manner of speaking. THE ARABIAN NIGHTS ENTERTAINMENT was my favourite and
RED AS A ROSE IS SHE. RED AS A ROSE IS SHE.
Hereupon he pawed the journal open and pored upon Lord only knows what, Hereupon he pawed the journal open and pored upon Lord only knows what,
found drowned or the exploits of King Willow, Iremonger having made a found drowned or the exploits of King Willow, Iremonger having made a
hundred and something second wicket not out for Notts, during which time hundred and something second wicket not out for Notts, during which time
(completely regardless of Ire) the keeper was intensely occupied (completely regardless of Ire) the keeper was intensely occupied
loosening an apparently new or secondhand boot which manifestly pinched loosening an apparently new or secondhand boot which manifestly pinched
him as he muttered against whoever it was sold it, all of them who were him as he muttered against whoever it was sold it, all of them who were
sufficiently awake enough to be picked out by their facial expressions, sufficiently awake enough to be picked out by their facial expressions,
that is to say, either simply looking on glumly or passing a trivial that is to say, either simply looking on glumly or passing a trivial
remark. remark.
To cut a long story short Bloom, grasping the situation, was the first to To cut a long story short Bloom, grasping the situation, was the first to
rise from his seat so as not to outstay their welcome having first and rise from his seat so as not to outstay their welcome having first and
foremost, being as good as his word that he would foot the bill for the foremost, being as good as his word that he would foot the bill for the
occasion, taken the wise precaution to unobtrusively motion to mine host occasion, taken the wise precaution to unobtrusively motion to mine host
as a parting shot a scarcely perceptible sign when the others were not as a parting shot a scarcely perceptible sign when the others were not
looking to the effect that the amount due was forthcoming, making a grand looking to the effect that the amount due was forthcoming, making a grand
total of fourpence (the amount he deposited unobtrusively in four total of fourpence (the amount he deposited unobtrusively in four
coppers, literally the last of the Mohicans), he having previously coppers, literally the last of the Mohicans), he having previously
spotted on the printed pricelist for all who ran to read opposite him in spotted on the printed pricelist for all who ran to read opposite him in
unmistakable figures, coffee 2d, confectionery do, and honestly well unmistakable figures, coffee 2d, confectionery do, and honestly well
worth twice the money once in a way, as Wetherup used to remark. worth twice the money once in a way, as Wetherup used to remark.
--Come, he counselled to close the SEANCE. --Come, he counselled to close the SEANCE.
Seeing that the ruse worked and the coast was clear they left the shelter Seeing that the ruse worked and the coast was clear they left the shelter
or shanty together and the ELITE society of oilskin and company whom or shanty together and the ELITE society of oilskin and company whom
nothing short of an earthquake would move out of their DOLCE FAR NIENTE. nothing short of an earthquake would move out of their DOLCE FAR NIENTE.
Stephen, who confessed to still feeling poorly and fagged out, paused at Stephen, who confessed to still feeling poorly and fagged out, paused at
the, for a moment, the door. the, for a moment, the door.
--One thing I never understood, he said to be original on the spur of the --One thing I never understood, he said to be original on the spur of the
moment. Why they put tables upside down at night, I mean chairs upside moment. Why they put tables upside down at night, I mean chairs upside
down, on the tables in cafes. To which impromptu the neverfailing Bloom down, on the tables in cafes. To which impromptu the neverfailing Bloom
replied without a moment's hesitation, saying straight off: replied without a moment's hesitation, saying straight off:
--To sweep the floor in the morning. --To sweep the floor in the morning.
So saying he skipped around, nimbly considering, frankly at the same time So saying he skipped around, nimbly considering, frankly at the same time
apologetic to get on his companion's right, a habit of his, by the bye, apologetic to get on his companion's right, a habit of his, by the bye,
his right side being, in classical idiom, his tender Achilles. The night his right side being, in classical idiom, his tender Achilles. The night
air was certainly now a treat to breathe though Stephen was a bit weak on air was certainly now a treat to breathe though Stephen was a bit weak on
his pins. his pins.
--It will (the air) do you good, Bloom said, meaning also the walk, in a --It will (the air) do you good, Bloom said, meaning also the walk, in a
moment. The only thing is to walk then you'll feel a different man. Come. moment. The only thing is to walk then you'll feel a different man. Come.
It's not far. Lean on me. It's not far. Lean on me.
Accordingly he passed his left arm in Stephen's right and led him on Accordingly he passed his left arm in Stephen's right and led him on
accordingly. accordingly.
--Yes, Stephen said uncertainly because he thought he felt a strange kind --Yes, Stephen said uncertainly because he thought he felt a strange kind
of flesh of a different man approach him, sinewless and wobbly and all of flesh of a different man approach him, sinewless and wobbly and all
that. that.
Anyhow they passed the sentrybox with stones, brazier etc. where the Anyhow they passed the sentrybox with stones, brazier etc. where the
municipal supernumerary, ex Gumley, was still to all intents and purposes municipal supernumerary, ex Gumley, was still to all intents and purposes
wrapped in the arms of Murphy, as the adage has it, dreaming of fresh wrapped in the arms of Murphy, as the adage has it, dreaming of fresh
fields and pastures new. And APROPOS of coffin of stones the analogy was fields and pastures new. And APROPOS of coffin of stones the analogy was
not at all bad as it was in fact a stoning to death on the part of not at all bad as it was in fact a stoning to death on the part of
seventytwo out of eighty odd constituencies that ratted at the time of seventytwo out of eighty odd constituencies that ratted at the time of
the split and chiefly the belauded peasant class, probably the selfsame the split and chiefly the belauded peasant class, probably the selfsame
evicted tenants he had put in their holdings. evicted tenants he had put in their holdings.
So they turned on to chatting about music, a form of art for which Bloom, So they turned on to chatting about music, a form of art for which Bloom,
as a pure amateur, possessed the greatest love, as they made tracks arm as a pure amateur, possessed the greatest love, as they made tracks arm
in arm across Beresford place. Wagnerian music, though confessedly grand in arm across Beresford place. Wagnerian music, though confessedly grand
in its way, was a bit too heavy for Bloom and hard to follow at the first in its way, was a bit too heavy for Bloom and hard to follow at the first
go-off but the music of Mercadante's HUGUENOTS, Meyerbeer's SEVEN LAST go-off but the music of Mercadante's HUGUENOTS, Meyerbeer's SEVEN LAST
WORDS ON THE CROSS and Mozart's TWELFTH MASS he simply revelled in, the WORDS ON THE CROSS and Mozart's TWELFTH MASS he simply revelled in, the
GLORIA in that being, to his mind, the acme of first class music as such, GLORIA in that being, to his mind, the acme of first class music as such,
literally knocking everything else into a cocked hat. He infinitely literally knocking everything else into a cocked hat. He infinitely
preferred the sacred music of the catholic church to anything the preferred the sacred music of the catholic church to anything the
opposite shop could offer in that line such as those Moody and Sankey opposite shop could offer in that line such as those Moody and Sankey
hymns or BID ME TO LIVE AND I WILL LIVE THY PROTESTANT TO BE. He also hymns or BID ME TO LIVE AND I WILL LIVE THY PROTESTANT TO BE. He also
yielded to none in his admiration of Rossini's STABAT MATER, a work yielded to none in his admiration of Rossini's STABAT MATER, a work
simply abounding in immortal numbers, in which his wife, Madam Marion simply abounding in immortal numbers, in which his wife, Madam Marion
Tweedy, made a hit, a veritable sensation, he might safely say, greatly Tweedy, made a hit, a veritable sensation, he might safely say, greatly
adding to her other laureis and putting the others totally in the shade, adding to her other laureis and putting the others totally in the shade,
in the jesuit fathers' church in upper Gardiner street, the sacred in the jesuit fathers' church in upper Gardiner street, the sacred
edifice being thronged to the doors to hear her with virtuosos, or edifice being thronged to the doors to hear her with virtuosos, or
VIRTUOSI rather. There was the unanimous opinion that there was none to VIRTUOSI rather. There was the unanimous opinion that there was none to
come up to her and suffice it to say in a place of worship for music of a come up to her and suffice it to say in a place of worship for music of a
sacred character there was a generally voiced desire for an encore. On sacred character there was a generally voiced desire for an encore. On
the whole though favouring preferably light opera of the DON GIOVANNI the whole though favouring preferably light opera of the DON GIOVANNI
description and MARTHA, a gem in its line, he had a PENCHANT, though with description and MARTHA, a gem in its line, he had a PENCHANT, though with
only a surface knowledge, for the severe classical school such as only a surface knowledge, for the severe classical school such as
Mendelssohn. And talking of that, taking it for granted he knew all about Mendelssohn. And talking of that, taking it for granted he knew all about
the old favourites, he mentioned PAR EXCELLENCE Lionel's air in MARTHA, the old favourites, he mentioned PAR EXCELLENCE Lionel's air in MARTHA,
M'APPARI, which, curiously enough, he had heard or overheard, to be more M'APPARI, which, curiously enough, he had heard or overheard, to be more
accurate, on yesterday, a privilege he keenly appreciated, from the lips accurate, on yesterday, a privilege he keenly appreciated, from the lips
of Stephen's respected father, sung to perfection, a study of the number, of Stephen's respected father, sung to perfection, a study of the number,
in fact, which made all the others take a back seat. Stephen, in reply to in fact, which made all the others take a back seat. Stephen, in reply to
a politely put query, said he didn't sing it but launched out into a politely put query, said he didn't sing it but launched out into
praises of Shakespeare's songs, at least of in or about that period, the praises of Shakespeare's songs, at least of in or about that period, the
lutenist Dowland who lived in Fetter lane near Gerard the herbalist, who lutenist Dowland who lived in Fetter lane near Gerard the herbalist, who
ANNO LUDENDO HAUSI, DOULANDUS, an instrument he was contemplating ANNO LUDENDO HAUSI, DOULANDUS, an instrument he was contemplating
purchasing from Mr Arnold Dolmetsch, whom B. did not quite recall though purchasing from Mr Arnold Dolmetsch, whom B. did not quite recall though
the name certainly sounded familiar, for sixtyfive guineas and Farnaby the name certainly sounded familiar, for sixtyfive guineas and Farnaby
and son with their DUX and COMES conceits and Byrd (William) who played and son with their DUX and COMES conceits and Byrd (William) who played
the virginals, he said, in the Queen's chapel or anywhere else he found the virginals, he said, in the Queen's chapel or anywhere else he found
them and one Tomkins who made toys or airs and John Bull. them and one Tomkins who made toys or airs and John Bull.
On the roadway which they were approaching whilst still speaking beyond On the roadway which they were approaching whilst still speaking beyond
the swingchains a horse, dragging a sweeper, paced on the paven ground, the swingchains a horse, dragging a sweeper, paced on the paven ground,
brushing a long swathe of mire up so that with the noise Bloom was not brushing a long swathe of mire up so that with the noise Bloom was not
perfectly certain whether he had caught aright the allusion to sixtyfive perfectly certain whether he had caught aright the allusion to sixtyfive
guineas and John Bull. He inquired if it was John Bull the political guineas and John Bull. He inquired if it was John Bull the political
celebrity of that ilk, as it struck him, the two identical names, as a celebrity of that ilk, as it struck him, the two identical names, as a
striking coincidence. striking coincidence.
By the chains the horse slowly swerved to turn, which perceiving, Bloom, By the chains the horse slowly swerved to turn, which perceiving, Bloom,
who was keeping a sharp lookout as usual, plucked the other's sleeve who was keeping a sharp lookout as usual, plucked the other's sleeve
gently, jocosely remarking: gently, jocosely remarking:
--Our lives are in peril tonight. Beware of the steamroller. --Our lives are in peril tonight. Beware of the steamroller.
They thereupon stopped. Bloom looked at the head of a horse not worth They thereupon stopped. Bloom looked at the head of a horse not worth
anything like sixtyfive guineas, suddenly in evidence in the dark quite anything like sixtyfive guineas, suddenly in evidence in the dark quite
near so that it seemed new, a different grouping of bones and even flesh near so that it seemed new, a different grouping of bones and even flesh
because palpably it was a fourwalker, a hipshaker, a blackbuttocker, a because palpably it was a fourwalker, a hipshaker, a blackbuttocker, a
taildangler, a headhanger putting his hind foot foremost the while the taildangler, a headhanger putting his hind foot foremost the while the
lord of his creation sat on the perch, busy with his thoughts. But such a lord of his creation sat on the perch, busy with his thoughts. But such a
good poor brute he was sorry he hadn't a lump of sugar but, as he wisely good poor brute he was sorry he hadn't a lump of sugar but, as he wisely
reflected, you could scarcely be prepared for every emergency that might reflected, you could scarcely be prepared for every emergency that might
crop up. He was just a big nervous foolish noodly kind of a horse, crop up. He was just a big nervous foolish noodly kind of a horse,
without a second care in the world. But even a dog, he reflected, take without a second care in the world. But even a dog, he reflected, take
that mongrel in Barney Kiernan's, of the same size, would be a holy that mongrel in Barney Kiernan's, of the same size, would be a holy
horror to face. But it was no animal's fault in particular if he was horror to face. But it was no animal's fault in particular if he was
built that way like the camel, ship of the desert, distilling grapes into built that way like the camel, ship of the desert, distilling grapes into
potheen in his hump. Nine tenths of them all could be caged or trained, potheen in his hump. Nine tenths of them all could be caged or trained,
nothing beyond the art of man barring the bees. Whale with a harpoon nothing beyond the art of man barring the bees. Whale with a harpoon
hairpin, alligator tickle the small of his back and he sees the joke, hairpin, alligator tickle the small of his back and he sees the joke,
chalk a circle for a rooster, tiger my eagle eye. These timely chalk a circle for a rooster, tiger my eagle eye. These timely
reflections anent the brutes of the field occupied his mind somewhat reflections anent the brutes of the field occupied his mind somewhat
distracted from Stephen's words while the ship of the street was distracted from Stephen's words while the ship of the street was
manoeuvring and Stephen went on about the highly interesting old. manoeuvring and Stephen went on about the highly interesting old.
--What's this I was saying? Ah, yes! My wife, he intimated, plunging IN --What's this I was saying? Ah, yes! My wife, he intimated, plunging IN
MEDIAS RES, would have the greatest of pleasure in making your MEDIAS RES, would have the greatest of pleasure in making your
acquaintance as she is passionately attached to music of any kind. acquaintance as she is passionately attached to music of any kind.
He looked sideways in a friendly fashion at the sideface of Stephen, He looked sideways in a friendly fashion at the sideface of Stephen,
image of his mother, which was not quite the same as the usual handsome image of his mother, which was not quite the same as the usual handsome
blackguard type they unquestionably had an insatiable hankering after as blackguard type they unquestionably had an insatiable hankering after as
he was perhaps not that way built. he was perhaps not that way built.
Still, supposing he had his father's gift as he more than suspected, it Still, supposing he had his father's gift as he more than suspected, it
opened up new vistas in his mind such as Lady Fingall's Irish industries, opened up new vistas in his mind such as Lady Fingall's Irish industries,
concert on the preceding Monday, and aristocracy in general. concert on the preceding Monday, and aristocracy in general.
Exquisite variations he was now describing on an air YOUTH HERE HAS END Exquisite variations he was now describing on an air YOUTH HERE HAS END
by Jans Pieter Sweelinck, a Dutchman of Amsterdam where the frows come by Jans Pieter Sweelinck, a Dutchman of Amsterdam where the frows come
from. Even more he liked an old German song of JOHANNES JEEP about the from. Even more he liked an old German song of JOHANNES JEEP about the
clear sea and the voices of sirens, sweet murderers of men, which boggled clear sea and the voices of sirens, sweet murderers of men, which boggled
Bloom a bit: Bloom a bit:
    VON DER SIRENEN LISTIGKEIT     VON DER SIRENEN LISTIGKEIT
    TUN DIE POETEN DICHTEN.     TUN DIE POETEN DICHTEN.
These opening bars he sang and translated EXTEMPORE. Bloom, nodding, said These opening bars he sang and translated EXTEMPORE. Bloom, nodding, said
he perfectly understood and begged him to go on by all means which he he perfectly understood and begged him to go on by all means which he
did. did.
A phenomenally beautiful tenor voice like that, the rarest of boons, A phenomenally beautiful tenor voice like that, the rarest of boons,
which Bloom appreciated at the very first note he got out, could easily, which Bloom appreciated at the very first note he got out, could easily,
if properly handled by some recognised authority on voice production such if properly handled by some recognised authority on voice production such
as Barraclough and being able to read music into the bargain, command its as Barraclough and being able to read music into the bargain, command its
own price where baritones were ten a penny and procure for its fortunate own price where baritones were ten a penny and procure for its fortunate
possessor in the near future an ENTREE into fashionable houses in the possessor in the near future an ENTREE into fashionable houses in the
best residential quarters of financial magnates in a large way of best residential quarters of financial magnates in a large way of
business and titled people where with his university degree of B. A. (a business and titled people where with his university degree of B. A. (a
huge ad in its way) and gentlemanly bearing to all the more influence the huge ad in its way) and gentlemanly bearing to all the more influence the
good impression he would infallibly score a distinct success, being good impression he would infallibly score a distinct success, being
blessed with brains which also could be utilised for the purpose and blessed with brains which also could be utilised for the purpose and
other requisites, if his clothes were properly attended to so as to the other requisites, if his clothes were properly attended to so as to the
better worm his way into their good graces as he, a youthful tyro in-- better worm his way into their good graces as he, a youthful tyro in--
society's sartorial niceties, hardly understood how a little thing like society's sartorial niceties, hardly understood how a little thing like
that could militate against you. It was in fact only a matter of months that could militate against you. It was in fact only a matter of months
and he could easily foresee him participating in their musical and and he could easily foresee him participating in their musical and
artistic CONVERSAZIONES during the festivities of the Christmas season, artistic CONVERSAZIONES during the festivities of the Christmas season,
for choice, causing a slight flutter in the dovecotes of the fair sex and for choice, causing a slight flutter in the dovecotes of the fair sex and
being made a lot of by ladies out for sensation, cases of which, as he being made a lot of by ladies out for sensation, cases of which, as he
happened to know, were on record--in fact, without giving the show away, happened to know, were on record--in fact, without giving the show away,
he himself once upon a time, if he cared to, could easily have. Added to he himself once upon a time, if he cared to, could easily have. Added to
which of course would be the pecuniary emolument by no means to be which of course would be the pecuniary emolument by no means to be
sneezed at, going hand in hand with his tuition fees. Not, he sneezed at, going hand in hand with his tuition fees. Not, he
parenthesised, that for the sake of filthy lucre he need necessarily parenthesised, that for the sake of filthy lucre he need necessarily
embrace the lyric platform as a walk in life for any lengthy space of embrace the lyric platform as a walk in life for any lengthy space of
time. But a step in the required direction it was beyond yea or nay and time. But a step in the required direction it was beyond yea or nay and
both monetarily and mentally it contained no reflection on his dignity in both monetarily and mentally it contained no reflection on his dignity in
the smallest and it often turned in uncommonly handy to be handed a the smallest and it often turned in uncommonly handy to be handed a
cheque at a muchneeded moment when every little helped. Besides, though cheque at a muchneeded moment when every little helped. Besides, though
taste latterly had deteriorated to a degree, original music like that, taste latterly had deteriorated to a degree, original music like that,
different from the conventional rut, would rapidly have a great vogue as different from the conventional rut, would rapidly have a great vogue as
it would be a decided novelty for Dublin's musical world after the usual it would be a decided novelty for Dublin's musical world after the usual
hackneyed run of catchy tenor solos foisted on a confiding public by Ivan hackneyed run of catchy tenor solos foisted on a confiding public by Ivan
St Austell and Hilton St Just and their GENUS OMNE. Yes, beyond a shadow St Austell and Hilton St Just and their GENUS OMNE. Yes, beyond a shadow
of a doubt he could with all the cards in his hand and he had a capital of a doubt he could with all the cards in his hand and he had a capital
opening to make a name for himself and win a high place in the city's opening to make a name for himself and win a high place in the city's
esteem where he could command a stiff figure and, booking ahead, give a esteem where he could command a stiff figure and, booking ahead, give a
grand concert for the patrons of the King street house, given a backerup, grand concert for the patrons of the King street house, given a backerup,
if one were forthcoming to kick him upstairs, so to speak, a big IF, if one were forthcoming to kick him upstairs, so to speak, a big IF,
however, with some impetus of the goahead sort to obviate the inevitable however, with some impetus of the goahead sort to obviate the inevitable
procrastination which often tripped -up a too much feted prince of good procrastination which often tripped -up a too much feted prince of good
fellows. And it need not detract from the other by one iota as, being his fellows. And it need not detract from the other by one iota as, being his
own master, he would have heaps of time to practise literature in his own master, he would have heaps of time to practise literature in his
spare moments when desirous of so doing without its clashing with his spare moments when desirous of so doing without its clashing with his
vocal career or containing anything derogatory whatsoever as it was a vocal career or containing anything derogatory whatsoever as it was a
matter for himself alone. In fact, he had the ball at his feet and that matter for himself alone. In fact, he had the ball at his feet and that
was the very reason why the other, possessed of a remarkably sharp nose was the very reason why the other, possessed of a remarkably sharp nose
for smelling a rat of any sort, hung on to him at all. for smelling a rat of any sort, hung on to him at all.
The horse was just then. And later on at a propitious opportunity he The horse was just then. And later on at a propitious opportunity he
purposed (Bloom did), without anyway prying into his private affairs on purposed (Bloom did), without anyway prying into his private affairs on
the FOOLS STEP IN WHERE ANGELS principle, advising him to sever his the FOOLS STEP IN WHERE ANGELS principle, advising him to sever his
connection with a certain budding practitioner who, he noticed, was prone connection with a certain budding practitioner who, he noticed, was prone
to disparage and even to a slight extent with some hilarious pretext when to disparage and even to a slight extent with some hilarious pretext when
not present, deprecate him, or whatever you like to call it which in not present, deprecate him, or whatever you like to call it which in
Bloom's humble opinion threw a nasty sidelight on that side of a person's Bloom's humble opinion threw a nasty sidelight on that side of a person's
character, no pun intended. character, no pun intended.
The horse having reached the end of his tether, so to speak, halted and, The horse having reached the end of his tether, so to speak, halted and,
rearing high a proud feathering tail, added his quota by letting fall on rearing high a proud feathering tail, added his quota by letting fall on
the floor which the brush would soon brush up and polish, three smoking the floor which the brush would soon brush up and polish, three smoking
globes of turds. Slowly three times, one after another, from a full globes of turds. Slowly three times, one after another, from a full
crupper he mired. And humanely his driver waited till he (or she) had crupper he mired. And humanely his driver waited till he (or she) had
ended, patient in his scythed car. ended, patient in his scythed car.
Side by side Bloom, profiting by the CONTRETEMPS, with Stephen passed Side by side Bloom, profiting by the CONTRETEMPS, with Stephen passed
through the gap of the chains, divided by the upright, and, stepping over through the gap of the chains, divided by the upright, and, stepping over
a strand of mire, went across towards Gardiner street lower, Stephen a strand of mire, went across towards Gardiner street lower, Stephen
singing more boldly, but not loudly, the end of the ballad. singing more boldly, but not loudly, the end of the ballad.
    UND ALLE SCHIFFE BRUCKEN.     UND ALLE SCHIFFE BRUCKEN.
The driver never said a word, good, bad or indifferent, but merely The driver never said a word, good, bad or indifferent, but merely
watched the two figures, as he sat on his lowbacked car, both black, one watched the two figures, as he sat on his lowbacked car, both black, one
full, one lean, walk towards the railway bridge, TO BE MARRIED BY FATHER full, one lean, walk towards the railway bridge, TO BE MARRIED BY FATHER
MAHER. As they walked they at times stopped and walked again continuing MAHER. As they walked they at times stopped and walked again continuing
their TETE-A-TETE (which, of course, he was utterly out of) about sirens their TETE-A-TETE (which, of course, he was utterly out of) about sirens
enemies of man's reason, mingled with a number of other topics of the enemies of man's reason, mingled with a number of other topics of the
same category, usurpers, historical cases of the kind while the man in same category, usurpers, historical cases of the kind while the man in
the sweeper car or you might as well call it in the sleeper car who in the sweeper car or you might as well call it in the sleeper car who in
any case couldn't possibly hear because they were too far simply sat in any case couldn't possibly hear because they were too far simply sat in
his seat near the end of lower Gardiner street AND LOOKED AFTER THEIR his seat near the end of lower Gardiner street AND LOOKED AFTER THEIR
LOWBACKED CAR. LOWBACKED CAR.
    * * * * * * *     * * * * * * *
What parallel courses did Bloom and Stephen follow returning? What parallel courses did Bloom and Stephen follow returning?
Starting united both at normal walking pace from Beresford place they Starting united both at normal walking pace from Beresford place they
followed in the order named Lower and Middle Gardiner streets and followed in the order named Lower and Middle Gardiner streets and
Mountjoy square, west: then, at reduced pace, each bearing left, Mountjoy square, west: then, at reduced pace, each bearing left,
Gardiner's place by an inadvertence as far as the farther corner of Gardiner's place by an inadvertence as far as the farther corner of
Temple street: then, at reduced pace with interruptions of halt, bearing Temple street: then, at reduced pace with interruptions of halt, bearing
right, Temple street, north, as far as Hardwicke place. Approaching, right, Temple street, north, as far as Hardwicke place. Approaching,
disparate, at relaxed walking pace they crossed both the circus before disparate, at relaxed walking pace they crossed both the circus before
George's church diametrically, the chord in any circle being less than George's church diametrically, the chord in any circle being less than
the arc which it subtends. the arc which it subtends.
Of what did the duumvirate deliberate during their itinerary? Of what did the duumvirate deliberate during their itinerary?
Music, literature, Ireland, Dublin, Paris, friendship, woman, Music, literature, Ireland, Dublin, Paris, friendship, woman,
prostitution, diet, the influence of gaslight or the light of arc and prostitution, diet, the influence of gaslight or the light of arc and
glowlamps on the growth of adjoining paraheliotropic trees, exposed glowlamps on the growth of adjoining paraheliotropic trees, exposed
corporation emergency dustbuckets, the Roman catholic church, corporation emergency dustbuckets, the Roman catholic church,
ecclesiastical celibacy, the Irish nation, jesuit education, careers, the ecclesiastical celibacy, the Irish nation, jesuit education, careers, the
study of medicine, the past day, the maleficent influence of the study of medicine, the past day, the maleficent influence of the
presabbath, Stephen's collapse. presabbath, Stephen's collapse.
Did Bloom discover common factors of similarity between their respective Did Bloom discover common factors of similarity between their respective
like and unlike reactions to experience? like and unlike reactions to experience?
Both were sensitive to artistic impressions, musical in preference to Both were sensitive to artistic impressions, musical in preference to
plastic or pictorial. Both preferred a continental to an insular manner plastic or pictorial. Both preferred a continental to an insular manner
of life, a cisatlantic to a transatlantic place of residence. Both of life, a cisatlantic to a transatlantic place of residence. Both
indurated by early domestic training and an inherited tenacity of indurated by early domestic training and an inherited tenacity of
heterodox resistance professed their disbelief in many orthodox heterodox resistance professed their disbelief in many orthodox
religious, national, social and ethical doctrines. Both admitted the religious, national, social and ethical doctrines. Both admitted the
alternately stimulating and obtunding influence of heterosexual alternately stimulating and obtunding influence of heterosexual
magnetism. magnetism.
Were their views on some points divergent? Were their views on some points divergent?
Stephen dissented openly from Bloom's views on the importance of dietary Stephen dissented openly from Bloom's views on the importance of dietary
and civic selfhelp while Bloom dissented tacitly from Stephen's views on and civic selfhelp while Bloom dissented tacitly from Stephen's views on
the eternal affirmation of the spirit of man in literature. Bloom the eternal affirmation of the spirit of man in literature. Bloom
assented covertly to Stephen's rectification of the anachronism involved assented covertly to Stephen's rectification of the anachronism involved
in assigning the date of the conversion of the Irish nation to in assigning the date of the conversion of the Irish nation to
christianity from druidism by Patrick son of Calpornus, son of Potitus, christianity from druidism by Patrick son of Calpornus, son of Potitus,
son of Odyssus, sent by pope Celestine I in the year 432 in the reign of son of Odyssus, sent by pope Celestine I in the year 432 in the reign of
Leary to the year 260 or thereabouts in the reign of Cormac MacArt (died Leary to the year 260 or thereabouts in the reign of Cormac MacArt (died
266 A.D.), suffocated by imperfect deglutition of aliment at Sletty and 266 A.D.), suffocated by imperfect deglutition of aliment at Sletty and
interred at Rossnaree. The collapse which Bloom ascribed to gastric interred at Rossnaree. The collapse which Bloom ascribed to gastric
inanition and certain chemical compounds of varying degrees of inanition and certain chemical compounds of varying degrees of
adulteration and alcoholic strength, accelerated by mental exertion and adulteration and alcoholic strength, accelerated by mental exertion and
the velocity of rapid circular motion in a relaxing atmosphere, Stephen the velocity of rapid circular motion in a relaxing atmosphere, Stephen
attributed to the reapparition of a matutinal cloud (perceived by both attributed to the reapparition of a matutinal cloud (perceived by both
from two different points of observation Sandycove and Dublin) at first from two different points of observation Sandycove and Dublin) at first
no bigger than a woman's hand. no bigger than a woman's hand.
Was there one point on which their views were equal and negative? Was there one point on which their views were equal and negative?
The influence of gaslight or electric light on the growth of adjoining The influence of gaslight or electric light on the growth of adjoining
paraheliotropic trees. paraheliotropic trees.
Had Bloom discussed similar subjects during nocturnal perambulations in Had Bloom discussed similar subjects during nocturnal perambulations in
the past? the past?
In 1884 with Owen Goldberg and Cecil Turnbull at night on public In 1884 with Owen Goldberg and Cecil Turnbull at night on public
thoroughfares between Longwood avenue and Leonard's corner and Leonard's thoroughfares between Longwood avenue and Leonard's corner and Leonard's
corner and Synge street and Synge street and Bloomfield avenue. corner and Synge street and Synge street and Bloomfield avenue.
In 1885 with Percy Apjohn in the evenings, reclined against the wall In 1885 with Percy Apjohn in the evenings, reclined against the wall
between Gibraltar villa and Bloomfield house in Crumlin, barony of between Gibraltar villa and Bloomfield house in Crumlin, barony of
Uppercross. In 1886 occasionally with casual acquaintances and Uppercross. In 1886 occasionally with casual acquaintances and
prospective purchasers on doorsteps, in front parlours, in third class prospective purchasers on doorsteps, in front parlours, in third class
railway carriages of suburban lines. In 1888 frequently with major Brian railway carriages of suburban lines. In 1888 frequently with major Brian
Tweedy and his daughter Miss Marion Tweedy, together and separately on Tweedy and his daughter Miss Marion Tweedy, together and separately on
the lounge in Matthew Dillon's house in Roundtown. Once in 1892 and once the lounge in Matthew Dillon's house in Roundtown. Once in 1892 and once
in 1893 with Julius (Juda) Mastiansky, on both occasions in the parlour in 1893 with Julius (Juda) Mastiansky, on both occasions in the parlour
of his (Bloom's) house in Lombard street, west. of his (Bloom's) house in Lombard street, west.
What reflection concerning the irregular sequence of dates 1884, 1885, What reflection concerning the irregular sequence of dates 1884, 1885,
1886, 1888, 1892, 1893, 1904 did Bloom make before their arrival at their 1886, 1888, 1892, 1893, 1904 did Bloom make before their arrival at their
destination? destination?
He reflected that the progressive extension of the field of individual He reflected that the progressive extension of the field of individual
development and experience was regressively accompanied by a restriction development and experience was regressively accompanied by a restriction
of the converse domain of interindividual relations. of the converse domain of interindividual relations.
As in what ways? As in what ways?
From inexistence to existence he came to many and was as one received: From inexistence to existence he came to many and was as one received:
existence with existence he was with any as any with any: from existence existence with existence he was with any as any with any: from existence
to nonexistence gone he would be by all as none perceived. to nonexistence gone he would be by all as none perceived.
What act did Bloom make on their arrival at their destination? What act did Bloom make on their arrival at their destination?
At the housesteps of the 4th Of the equidifferent uneven numbers, number At the housesteps of the 4th Of the equidifferent uneven numbers, number
7 Eccles street, he inserted his hand mechanically into the back pocket 7 Eccles street, he inserted his hand mechanically into the back pocket
of his trousers to obtain his latchkey. of his trousers to obtain his latchkey.
Was it there? Was it there?
It was in the corresponding pocket of the trousers which he had worn on It was in the corresponding pocket of the trousers which he had worn on
the day but one preceding. the day but one preceding.
Why was he doubly irritated? Why was he doubly irritated?
Because he had forgotten and because he remembered that he had reminded Because he had forgotten and because he remembered that he had reminded
himself twice not to forget. himself twice not to forget.
What were then the alternatives before the, premeditatedly (respectively) What were then the alternatives before the, premeditatedly (respectively)
and inadvertently, keyless couple? and inadvertently, keyless couple?
To enter or not to enter. To knock or not to knock. To enter or not to enter. To knock or not to knock.
Bloom's decision? Bloom's decision?
A stratagem. Resting his feet on the dwarf wall, he climbed over the area A stratagem. Resting his feet on the dwarf wall, he climbed over the area
railings, compressed his hat on his head, grasped two points at the lower railings, compressed his hat on his head, grasped two points at the lower
union of rails and stiles, lowered his body gradually by its length of union of rails and stiles, lowered his body gradually by its length of
five feet nine inches and a half to within two feet ten inches of the five feet nine inches and a half to within two feet ten inches of the
area pavement and allowed his body to move freely in space by separating area pavement and allowed his body to move freely in space by separating
himself from the railings and crouching in preparation for the impact of himself from the railings and crouching in preparation for the impact of
the fall. the fall.
Did he fall? Did he fall?
By his body's known weight of eleven stone and four pounds in avoirdupois By his body's known weight of eleven stone and four pounds in avoirdupois
measure, as certified by the graduated machine for periodical measure, as certified by the graduated machine for periodical
selfweighing in the premises of Francis Froedman, pharmaceutical chemist selfweighing in the premises of Francis Froedman, pharmaceutical chemist
of 19 Frederick street, north, on the last feast of the Ascension, to of 19 Frederick street, north, on the last feast of the Ascension, to
wit, the twelfth day of May of the bissextile year one thousand nine wit, the twelfth day of May of the bissextile year one thousand nine
hundred and four of the christian era (jewish era five thousand six hundred and four of the christian era (jewish era five thousand six
hundred and sixtyfour, mohammadan era one thousand three hundred and hundred and sixtyfour, mohammadan era one thousand three hundred and
twentytwo), golden number 5, epact 13, solar cycle 9, dominical letters C twentytwo), golden number 5, epact 13, solar cycle 9, dominical letters C
B, Roman indiction 2, Julian period 6617, MCMIV. B, Roman indiction 2, Julian period 6617, MCMIV.
Did he rise uninjured by concussion? Did he rise uninjured by concussion?
Regaining new stable equilibrium he rose uninjured though concussed by Regaining new stable equilibrium he rose uninjured though concussed by
the impact, raised the latch of the area door by the exertion of force at the impact, raised the latch of the area door by the exertion of force at
headborough, who could ill keep him to school to learn his letters and headborough, who could ill keep him to school to learn his letters and
the use of the globes, matriculated at the university to study the the use of the globes, matriculated at the university to study the
mechanics but he took the bit between his teeth like a raw colt and was mechanics but he took the bit between his teeth like a raw colt and was
more familiar with the justiciary and the parish beadle than with his more familiar with the justiciary and the parish beadle than with his
volumes. One time he would be a playactor, then a sutler or a welsher, volumes. One time he would be a playactor, then a sutler or a welsher,
then nought would keep him from the bearpit and the cocking main, then he then nought would keep him from the bearpit and the cocking main, then he
was for the ocean sea or to hoof it on the roads with the romany folk, was for the ocean sea or to hoof it on the roads with the romany folk,
kidnapping a squire's heir by favour of moonlight or fecking maids' linen kidnapping a squire's heir by favour of moonlight or fecking maids' linen
or choking chicken behind a hedge. He had been off as many times as a cat or choking chicken behind a hedge. He had been off as many times as a cat
has lives and back again with naked pockets as many more to his father has lives and back again with naked pockets as many more to his father
the headborough who shed a pint of tears as often as he saw him. What, the headborough who shed a pint of tears as often as he saw him. What,
says Mr Leopold with his hands across, that was earnest to know the drift says Mr Leopold with his hands across, that was earnest to know the drift
of it, will they slaughter all? I protest I saw them but this day morning of it, will they slaughter all? I protest I saw them but this day morning
going to the Liverpool boats, says he. I can scarce believe 'tis so bad, going to the Liverpool boats, says he. I can scarce believe 'tis so bad,
says he. And he had experience of the like brood beasts and of springers, says he. And he had experience of the like brood beasts and of springers,
greasy hoggets and wether wool, having been some years before actuary for greasy hoggets and wether wool, having been some years before actuary for
Mr Joseph Cuffe, a worthy salesmaster that drove his trade for live stock Mr Joseph Cuffe, a worthy salesmaster that drove his trade for live stock
and meadow auctions hard by Mr Gavin Low's yard in Prussia street. I and meadow auctions hard by Mr Gavin Low's yard in Prussia street. I
question with you there, says he. More like 'tis the hoose or the timber question with you there, says he. More like 'tis the hoose or the timber
tongue. Mr Stephen, a little moved but very handsomely told him no such tongue. Mr Stephen, a little moved but very handsomely told him no such
matter and that he had dispatches from the emperor's chief tailtickler matter and that he had dispatches from the emperor's chief tailtickler
thanking him for the hospitality, that was sending over Doctor thanking him for the hospitality, that was sending over Doctor
Rinderpest, the bestquoted cowcatcher in all Muscovy, with a bolus or two Rinderpest, the bestquoted cowcatcher in all Muscovy, with a bolus or two
of physic to take the bull by the horns. Come, come, says Mr Vincent, of physic to take the bull by the horns. Come, come, says Mr Vincent,
plain dealing. He'll find himself on the horns of a dilemma if he meddles plain dealing. He'll find himself on the horns of a dilemma if he meddles
with a bull that's Irish, says he. Irish by name and irish by nature, with a bull that's Irish, says he. Irish by name and irish by nature,
says Mr Stephen, and he sent the ale purling about, an Irish bull in an says Mr Stephen, and he sent the ale purling about, an Irish bull in an
English chinashop. I conceive you, says Mr Dixon. It is that same bull English chinashop. I conceive you, says Mr Dixon. It is that same bull
that was sent to our island by farmer Nicholas, the bravest cattlebreeder that was sent to our island by farmer Nicholas, the bravest cattlebreeder
of them all, with an emerald ring in his nose. True for you, says Mr of them all, with an emerald ring in his nose. True for you, says Mr
Vincent cross the table, and a bullseye into the bargain, says he, and a Vincent cross the table, and a bullseye into the bargain, says he, and a
plumper and a portlier bull, says he, never shit on shamrock. He had plumper and a portlier bull, says he, never shit on shamrock. He had
horns galore, a coat of cloth of gold and a sweet smoky breath coming out horns galore, a coat of cloth of gold and a sweet smoky breath coming out
of his nostrils so that the women of our island, leaving doughballs and of his nostrils so that the women of our island, leaving doughballs and
rollingpins, followed after him hanging his bulliness in daisychains. rollingpins, followed after him hanging his bulliness in daisychains.
What for that, says Mr Dixon, but before he came over farmer Nicholas What for that, says Mr Dixon, but before he came over farmer Nicholas
that was a eunuch had him properly gelded by a college of doctors who that was a eunuch had him properly gelded by a college of doctors who
were no better off than himself. So be off now, says he, and do all my were no better off than himself. So be off now, says he, and do all my
cousin german the lord Harry tells you and take a farmer's blessing, and cousin german the lord Harry tells you and take a farmer's blessing, and
with that he slapped his posteriors very soundly. But the slap and the with that he slapped his posteriors very soundly. But the slap and the
blessing stood him friend, says Mr Vincent, for to make up he taught him blessing stood him friend, says Mr Vincent, for to make up he taught him
a trick worth two of the other so that maid, wife, abbess and widow to a trick worth two of the other so that maid, wife, abbess and widow to
this day affirm that they would rather any time of the month whisper in this day affirm that they would rather any time of the month whisper in
his ear in the dark of a cowhouse or get a lick on the nape from his long his ear in the dark of a cowhouse or get a lick on the nape from his long
holy tongue than lie with the finest strapping young ravisher in the four holy tongue than lie with the finest strapping young ravisher in the four
fields of all Ireland. Another then put in his word: And they dressed fields of all Ireland. Another then put in his word: And they dressed
him, says he, in a point shift and petticoat with a tippet and girdle and him, says he, in a point shift and petticoat with a tippet and girdle and
ruffles on his wrists and clipped his forelock and rubbed him all over ruffles on his wrists and clipped his forelock and rubbed him all over
with spermacetic oil and built stables for him at every turn of the road with spermacetic oil and built stables for him at every turn of the road
with a gold manger in each full of the best hay in the market so that he with a gold manger in each full of the best hay in the market so that he
could doss and dung to his heart's content. By this time the father of could doss and dung to his heart's content. By this time the father of
the faithful (for so they called him) was grown so heavy that he could the faithful (for so they called him) was grown so heavy that he could
scarce walk to pasture. To remedy which our cozening dames and damsels scarce walk to pasture. To remedy which our cozening dames and damsels
brought him his fodder in their apronlaps and as soon as his belly was brought him his fodder in their apronlaps and as soon as his belly was
full he would rear up on his hind uarters to show their ladyships a full he would rear up on his hind uarters to show their ladyships a
mystery and roar and bellow out of him in bulls' language and they all mystery and roar and bellow out of him in bulls' language and they all
after him. Ay, says another, and so pampered was he that he would suffer after him. Ay, says another, and so pampered was he that he would suffer
nought to grow in all the land but green grass for himself (for that was nought to grow in all the land but green grass for himself (for that was
the only colour to his mind) and there was a board put up on a hillock in the only colour to his mind) and there was a board put up on a hillock in
the middle of the island with a printed notice, saying: By the Lord the middle of the island with a printed notice, saying: By the Lord
Harry, Green is the grass that grows on the ground. And, says Mr Dixon, Harry, Green is the grass that grows on the ground. And, says Mr Dixon,
if ever he got scent of a cattleraider in Roscommon or the wilds of if ever he got scent of a cattleraider in Roscommon or the wilds of
Connemara or a husbandman in Sligo that was sowing as much as a handful Connemara or a husbandman in Sligo that was sowing as much as a handful
of mustard or a bag of rapeseed out he'd run amok over half the of mustard or a bag of rapeseed out he'd run amok over half the
countryside rooting up with his horns whatever was planted and all by countryside rooting up with his horns whatever was planted and all by
lord Harry's orders. There was bad blood between them at first, says Mr lord Harry's orders. There was bad blood between them at first, says Mr
Vincent, and the lord Harry called farmer Nicholas all the old Nicks in Vincent, and the lord Harry called farmer Nicholas all the old Nicks in
the world and an old whoremaster that kept seven trulls in his house and the world and an old whoremaster that kept seven trulls in his house and
I'll meddle in his matters, says he. I'll make that animal smell hell, I'll meddle in his matters, says he. I'll make that animal smell hell,
says he, with the help of that good pizzle my father left me. But one says he, with the help of that good pizzle my father left me. But one
evening, says Mr Dixon, when the lord Harry was cleaning his royal pelt evening, says Mr Dixon, when the lord Harry was cleaning his royal pelt
to go to dinner after winning a boatrace (he had spade oars for himself to go to dinner after winning a boatrace (he had spade oars for himself
but the first rule of the course was that the others were to row with but the first rule of the course was that the others were to row with
pitchforks) he discovered in himself a wonderful likeness to a bull and pitchforks) he discovered in himself a wonderful likeness to a bull and
on picking up a blackthumbed chapbook that he kept in the pantry he found on picking up a blackthumbed chapbook that he kept in the pantry he found
sure enough that he was a lefthanded descendant of the famous champion sure enough that he was a lefthanded descendant of the famous champion
bull of the Romans, BOS BOVUM, which is good bog Latin for boss of the bull of the Romans, BOS BOVUM, which is good bog Latin for boss of the
show. After that, says Mr Vincent, the lord Harry put his head into a show. After that, says Mr Vincent, the lord Harry put his head into a
cow's drinkingtrough in the presence of all his courtiers and pulling it cow's drinkingtrough in the presence of all his courtiers and pulling it
out again told them all his new name. Then, with the water running off out again told them all his new name. Then, with the water running off
him, he got into an old smock and skirt that had belonged to his him, he got into an old smock and skirt that had belonged to his
grandmother and bought a grammar of the bulls' language to study but he grandmother and bought a grammar of the bulls' language to study but he
could never learn a word of it except the first personal pronoun which he could never learn a word of it except the first personal pronoun which he
copied out big and got off by heart and if ever he went out for a walk he copied out big and got off by heart and if ever he went out for a walk he
filled his pockets with chalk to write it upon what took his fancy, the filled his pockets with chalk to write it upon what took his fancy, the
side of a rock or a teahouse table or a bale of cotton or a corkfloat. In side of a rock or a teahouse table or a bale of cotton or a corkfloat. In
short, he and the bull of Ireland were soon as fast friends as an arse short, he and the bull of Ireland were soon as fast friends as an arse
and a shirt. They were, says Mr Stephen, and the end was that the men of and a shirt. They were, says Mr Stephen, and the end was that the men of
the island seeing no help was toward, as the ungrate women were all of the island seeing no help was toward, as the ungrate women were all of
one mind, made a wherry raft, loaded themselves and their bundles of one mind, made a wherry raft, loaded themselves and their bundles of
chattels on shipboard, set all masts erect, manned the yards, sprang chattels on shipboard, set all masts erect, manned the yards, sprang
their luff, heaved to, spread three sheets in the wind, put her head their luff, heaved to, spread three sheets in the wind, put her head
between wind and water, weighed anchor, ported her helm, ran up the jolly between wind and water, weighed anchor, ported her helm, ran up the jolly
Roger, gave three times three, let the bullgine run, pushed off in their Roger, gave three times three, let the bullgine run, pushed off in their
bumboat and put to sea to recover the main of America. Which was the bumboat and put to sea to recover the main of America. Which was the
occasion, says Mr Vincent, of the composing by a boatswain of that occasion, says Mr Vincent, of the composing by a boatswain of that
rollicking chanty: rollicking chanty:
  --POPE PETER'S BUT A PISSABED.   --POPE PETER'S BUT A PISSABED.
    A MAN'S A MAN FOR A' THAT.     A MAN'S A MAN FOR A' THAT.
Our worthy acquaintance Mr Malachi Mulligan now appeared in the doorway Our worthy acquaintance Mr Malachi Mulligan now appeared in the doorway
as the students were finishing their apologue accompanied with a friend as the students were finishing their apologue accompanied with a friend
whom he had just rencountered, a young gentleman, his name Alec Bannon, whom he had just rencountered, a young gentleman, his name Alec Bannon,
who had late come to town, it being his intention to buy a colour or a who had late come to town, it being his intention to buy a colour or a
cornetcy in the fencibles and list for the wars. Mr Mulligan was civil cornetcy in the fencibles and list for the wars. Mr Mulligan was civil
enough to express some relish of it all the more as it jumped with a enough to express some relish of it all the more as it jumped with a
project of his own for the cure of the very evil that had been touched project of his own for the cure of the very evil that had been touched
on. Whereat he handed round to the company a set of pasteboard cards on. Whereat he handed round to the company a set of pasteboard cards
which he had had printed that day at Mr Quinnell's bearing a legend which he had had printed that day at Mr Quinnell's bearing a legend
printed in fair italics: MR MALACHI MULLIGAN. FERTILISER AND INCUBATOR. printed in fair italics: MR MALACHI MULLIGAN. FERTILISER AND INCUBATOR.
LAMBAY ISLAND. His project, as he went on to expound, was to withdraw LAMBAY ISLAND. His project, as he went on to expound, was to withdraw
from the round of idle pleasures such as form the chief business of sir from the round of idle pleasures such as form the chief business of sir
Fopling Popinjay and sir Milksop Quidnunc in town and to devote himself Fopling Popinjay and sir Milksop Quidnunc in town and to devote himself
to the noblest task for which our bodily organism has been framed. Well, to the noblest task for which our bodily organism has been framed. Well,
let us hear of it, good my friend, said Mr Dixon. I make no doubt it let us hear of it, good my friend, said Mr Dixon. I make no doubt it
smacks of wenching. Come, be seated, both. 'Tis as cheap sitting as smacks of wenching. Come, be seated, both. 'Tis as cheap sitting as
standing. Mr Mulligan accepted of the invitation and, expatiating upon standing. Mr Mulligan accepted of the invitation and, expatiating upon
his design, told his hearers that he had been led into this thought by a his design, told his hearers that he had been led into this thought by a
consideration of the causes of sterility, both the inhibitory and the consideration of the causes of sterility, both the inhibitory and the
prohibitory, whether the inhibition in its turn were due to conjugal prohibitory, whether the inhibition in its turn were due to conjugal
vexations or to a parsimony of the balance as well as whether the vexations or to a parsimony of the balance as well as whether the
prohibition proceeded from defects congenital or from proclivities prohibition proceeded from defects congenital or from proclivities
acquired. It grieved him plaguily, he said, to see the nuptial couch acquired. It grieved him plaguily, he said, to see the nuptial couch
defrauded of its dearest pledges: and to reflect upon so many agreeable defrauded of its dearest pledges: and to reflect upon so many agreeable
females with rich jointures, a prey to the vilest bonzes, who hide their females with rich jointures, a prey to the vilest bonzes, who hide their
flambeau under a bushel in an uncongenial cloister or lose their womanly flambeau under a bushel in an uncongenial cloister or lose their womanly
bloom in the embraces of some unaccountable muskin when they might bloom in the embraces of some unaccountable muskin when they might
multiply the inlets of happiness, sacrificing the inestimable jewel of multiply the inlets of happiness, sacrificing the inestimable jewel of
their sex when a hundred pretty fellows were at hand to caress, this, he their sex when a hundred pretty fellows were at hand to caress, this, he
assured them, made his heart weep. To curb this inconvenient (which he assured them, made his heart weep. To curb this inconvenient (which he
concluded due to a suppression of latent heat), having advised with concluded due to a suppression of latent heat), having advised with
certain counsellors of worth and inspected into this matter, he had certain counsellors of worth and inspected into this matter, he had
resolved to purchase in fee simple for ever the freehold of Lambay island resolved to purchase in fee simple for ever the freehold of Lambay island
from its holder, lord Talbot de Malahide, a Tory gentleman of note much from its holder, lord Talbot de Malahide, a Tory gentleman of note much
in favour with our ascendancy party. He proposed to set up there a in favour with our ascendancy party. He proposed to set up there a
national fertilising farm to be named OMPHALOS with an obelisk hewn and national fertilising farm to be named OMPHALOS with an obelisk hewn and
erected after the fashion of Egypt and to offer his dutiful yeoman erected after the fashion of Egypt and to offer his dutiful yeoman
services for the fecundation of any female of what grade of life soever services for the fecundation of any female of what grade of life soever
who should there direct to him with the desire of fulfilling the who should there direct to him with the desire of fulfilling the
functions of her natural. Money was no object, he said, nor would he take functions of her natural. Money was no object, he said, nor would he take
a penny for his pains. The poorest kitchenwench no less than the opulent a penny for his pains. The poorest kitchenwench no less than the opulent
lady of fashion, if so be their constructions and their tempers were warm lady of fashion, if so be their constructions and their tempers were warm
persuaders for their petitions, would find in him their man. For his persuaders for their petitions, would find in him their man. For his
nutriment he shewed how he would feed himself exclusively upon a diet of nutriment he shewed how he would feed himself exclusively upon a diet of
savoury tubercles and fish and coneys there, the flesh of these latter savoury tubercles and fish and coneys there, the flesh of these latter
prolific rodents being highly recommended for his purpose, both broiled prolific rodents being highly recommended for his purpose, both broiled
and stewed with a blade of mace and a pod or two of capsicum chillies. and stewed with a blade of mace and a pod or two of capsicum chillies.
After this homily which he delivered with much warmth of asseveration Mr After this homily which he delivered with much warmth of asseveration Mr
Mulligan in a trice put off from his hat a kerchief with which he had Mulligan in a trice put off from his hat a kerchief with which he had
shielded it. They both, it seems, had been overtaken by the rain and for shielded it. They both, it seems, had been overtaken by the rain and for
all their mending their pace had taken water, as might be observed by Mr all their mending their pace had taken water, as might be observed by Mr
Mulligan's smallclothes of a hodden grey which was now somewhat piebald. Mulligan's smallclothes of a hodden grey which was now somewhat piebald.
His project meanwhile was very favourably entertained by his auditors and His project meanwhile was very favourably entertained by his auditors and
won hearty eulogies from all though Mr Dixon of Mary's excepted to it, won hearty eulogies from all though Mr Dixon of Mary's excepted to it,
asking with a finicking air did he purpose also to carry coals to asking with a finicking air did he purpose also to carry coals to
Newcastle. Mr Mulligan however made court to the scholarly by an apt Newcastle. Mr Mulligan however made court to the scholarly by an apt
quotation from the classics which, as it dwelt upon his memory, seemed to quotation from the classics which, as it dwelt upon his memory, seemed to
him a sound and tasteful support of his contention: TALIS AC TANTA him a sound and tasteful support of his contention: TALIS AC TANTA
DEPRAVATIO HUJUS SECULI, O QUIRITES, UT MATRESFAMILIARUM NOSTRAE LASCIVAS DEPRAVATIO HUJUS SECULI, O QUIRITES, UT MATRESFAMILIARUM NOSTRAE LASCIVAS
CUJUSLIBET SEMIVIRI LIBICI TITILLATIONES TESTIBUS PONDEROSIS ATQUE CUJUSLIBET SEMIVIRI LIBICI TITILLATIONES TESTIBUS PONDEROSIS ATQUE
EXCELSIS ERECTIONIBUS CENTURIONUM ROMANORUM MAGNOPERE ANTEPONUNT, while EXCELSIS ERECTIONIBUS CENTURIONUM ROMANORUM MAGNOPERE ANTEPONUNT, while
for those of ruder wit he drove home his point by analogies of the animal for those of ruder wit he drove home his point by analogies of the animal
kingdom more suitable to their stomach, the buck and doe of the forest kingdom more suitable to their stomach, the buck and doe of the forest
glade, the farmyard drake and duck. glade, the farmyard drake and duck.
Valuing himself not a little upon his elegance, being indeed a proper man Valuing himself not a little upon his elegance, being indeed a proper man
of person, this talkative now applied himself to his dress with of person, this talkative now applied himself to his dress with
animadversions of some heat upon the sudden whimsy of the atmospherics animadversions of some heat upon the sudden whimsy of the atmospherics
while the company lavished their encomiums upon the project he had while the company lavished their encomiums upon the project he had
advanced. The young gentleman, his friend, overjoyed as he was at a advanced. The young gentleman, his friend, overjoyed as he was at a
passage that had late befallen him, could not forbear to tell it his passage that had late befallen him, could not forbear to tell it his
nearest neighbour. Mr Mulligan, now perceiving the table, asked for whom nearest neighbour. Mr Mulligan, now perceiving the table, asked for whom
were those loaves and fishes and, seeing the stranger, he made him a were those loaves and fishes and, seeing the stranger, he made him a
civil bow and said, Pray, sir, was you in need of any professional civil bow and said, Pray, sir, was you in need of any professional
assistance we could give? Who, upon his offer, thanked him very heartily, assistance we could give? Who, upon his offer, thanked him very heartily,
though preserving his proper distance, and replied that he was come there though preserving his proper distance, and replied that he was come there
about a lady, now an inmate of Horne's house, that was in an interesting about a lady, now an inmate of Horne's house, that was in an interesting
condition, poor body, from woman's woe (and here he fetched a deep sigh) condition, poor body, from woman's woe (and here he fetched a deep sigh)
to know if her happiness had yet taken place. Mr Dixon, to turn the to know if her happiness had yet taken place. Mr Dixon, to turn the
table, took on to ask of Mr Mulligan himself whether his incipient table, took on to ask of Mr Mulligan himself whether his incipient
ventripotence, upon which he rallied him, betokened an ovoblastic ventripotence, upon which he rallied him, betokened an ovoblastic
gestation in the prostatic utricle or male womb or was due, as with the gestation in the prostatic utricle or male womb or was due, as with the
noted physician, Mr Austin Meldon, to a wolf in the stomach. For answer noted physician, Mr Austin Meldon, to a wolf in the stomach. For answer
Mr Mulligan, in a gale of laughter at his smalls, smote himself bravely Mr Mulligan, in a gale of laughter at his smalls, smote himself bravely
below the diaphragm, exclaiming with an admirable droll mimic of Mother below the diaphragm, exclaiming with an admirable droll mimic of Mother
Grogan (the most excellent creature of her sex though 'tis pity she's a Grogan (the most excellent creature of her sex though 'tis pity she's a
trollop): There's a belly that never bore a bastard. This was so happy a trollop): There's a belly that never bore a bastard. This was so happy a
conceit that it renewed the storm of mirth and threw the whole room into conceit that it renewed the storm of mirth and threw the whole room into
the most violent agitations of delight. The spry rattle had run on in the the most violent agitations of delight. The spry rattle had run on in the
same vein of mimicry but for some larum in the antechamber. same vein of mimicry but for some larum in the antechamber.
Here the listener who was none other than the Scotch student, a little Here the listener who was none other than the Scotch student, a little
fume of a fellow, blond as tow, congratulated in the liveliest fashion fume of a fellow, blond as tow, congratulated in the liveliest fashion
with the young gentleman and, interrupting the narrative at a salient with the young gentleman and, interrupting the narrative at a salient
point, having desired his visavis with a polite beck to have the point, having desired his visavis with a polite beck to have the
obligingness to pass him a flagon of cordial waters at the same time by a obligingness to pass him a flagon of cordial waters at the same time by a
questioning poise of the head (a whole century of polite breeding had not questioning poise of the head (a whole century of polite breeding had not
achieved so nice a gesture) to which was united an equivalent but achieved so nice a gesture) to which was united an equivalent but
contrary balance of the bottle asked the narrator as plainly as was ever contrary balance of the bottle asked the narrator as plainly as was ever
done in words if he might treat him with a cup of it. MAIS BIEN SUR, done in words if he might treat him with a cup of it. MAIS BIEN SUR,
noble stranger, said he cheerily, ET MILLE COMPLIMENTS. That you may and noble stranger, said he cheerily, ET MILLE COMPLIMENTS. That you may and
very opportunely. There wanted nothing but this cup to crown my felicity. very opportunely. There wanted nothing but this cup to crown my felicity.
But, gracious heaven, was I left with but a crust in my wallet and a But, gracious heaven, was I left with but a crust in my wallet and a
cupful of water from the well, my God, I would accept of them and find it cupful of water from the well, my God, I would accept of them and find it
in my heart to kneel down upon the ground and give thanks to the powers in my heart to kneel down upon the ground and give thanks to the powers
above for the happiness vouchsafed me by the Giver of good things. With above for the happiness vouchsafed me by the Giver of good things. With
these words he approached the goblet to his lips, took a complacent these words he approached the goblet to his lips, took a complacent
draught of the cordial, slicked his hair and, opening his bosom, out draught of the cordial, slicked his hair and, opening his bosom, out
popped a locket that hung from a silk riband, that very picture which he popped a locket that hung from a silk riband, that very picture which he
had cherished ever since her hand had wrote therein. Gazing upon those had cherished ever since her hand had wrote therein. Gazing upon those
features with a world of tenderness, Ah, Monsieur, he said, had you but features with a world of tenderness, Ah, Monsieur, he said, had you but
beheld her as I did with these eyes at that affecting instant with her beheld her as I did with these eyes at that affecting instant with her
dainty tucker and her new coquette cap (a gift for her feastday as she dainty tucker and her new coquette cap (a gift for her feastday as she
told me prettily) in such an artless disorder, of so melting a told me prettily) in such an artless disorder, of so melting a
tenderness, 'pon my conscience, even you, Monsieur, had been impelled by tenderness, 'pon my conscience, even you, Monsieur, had been impelled by
generous nature to deliver yourself wholly into the hands of such an generous nature to deliver yourself wholly into the hands of such an
enemy or to quit the field for ever. I declare, I was never so touched in enemy or to quit the field for ever. I declare, I was never so touched in
all my life. God, I thank thee, as the Author of my days! Thrice happy all my life. God, I thank thee, as the Author of my days! Thrice happy
will he be whom so amiable a creature will bless with her favours. A sigh will he be whom so amiable a creature will bless with her favours. A sigh
of affection gave eloquence to these words and, having replaced the of affection gave eloquence to these words and, having replaced the
locket in his bosom, he wiped his eye and sighed again. Beneficent locket in his bosom, he wiped his eye and sighed again. Beneficent
Disseminator of blessings to all Thy creatures, how great and universal Disseminator of blessings to all Thy creatures, how great and universal
must be that sweetest of Thy tyrannies which can hold in thrall the free must be that sweetest of Thy tyrannies which can hold in thrall the free
and the bond, the simple swain and the polished coxcomb, the lover in the and the bond, the simple swain and the polished coxcomb, the lover in the
heyday of reckless passion and the husband of maturer years. But indeed, heyday of reckless passion and the husband of maturer years. But indeed,
sir, I wander from the point. How mingled and imperfect are all our sir, I wander from the point. How mingled and imperfect are all our
sublunary joys. Maledicity! he exclaimed in anguish. Would to God that sublunary joys. Maledicity! he exclaimed in anguish. Would to God that
foresight had but remembered me to take my cloak along! I could weep to foresight had but remembered me to take my cloak along! I could weep to
think of it. Then, though it had poured seven showers, we were neither of think of it. Then, though it had poured seven showers, we were neither of
us a penny the worse. But beshrew me, he cried, clapping hand to his us a penny the worse. But beshrew me, he cried, clapping hand to his
forehead, tomorrow will be a new day and, thousand thunders, I know of a forehead, tomorrow will be a new day and, thousand thunders, I know of a
MARCHAND DE CAPOTES, Monsieur Poyntz, from whom I can have for a livre as MARCHAND DE CAPOTES, Monsieur Poyntz, from whom I can have for a livre as
snug a cloak of the French fashion as ever kept a lady from wetting. Tut, snug a cloak of the French fashion as ever kept a lady from wetting. Tut,
tut! cries Le Fecondateur, tripping in, my friend Monsieur Moore, that tut! cries Le Fecondateur, tripping in, my friend Monsieur Moore, that
most accomplished traveller (I have just cracked a half bottle AVEC LUI most accomplished traveller (I have just cracked a half bottle AVEC LUI
in a circle of the best wits of the town), is my authority that in Cape in a circle of the best wits of the town), is my authority that in Cape
Horn, VENTRE BICHE, they have a rain that will wet through any, even the Horn, VENTRE BICHE, they have a rain that will wet through any, even the
stoutest cloak. A drenching of that violence, he tells me, SANS BLAGUE, stoutest cloak. A drenching of that violence, he tells me, SANS BLAGUE,
has sent more than one luckless fellow in good earnest posthaste to has sent more than one luckless fellow in good earnest posthaste to
another world. Pooh! A LIVRE! cries Monsieur Lynch. The clumsy things are another world. Pooh! A LIVRE! cries Monsieur Lynch. The clumsy things are
dear at a sou. One umbrella, were it no bigger than a fairy mushroom, is dear at a sou. One umbrella, were it no bigger than a fairy mushroom, is
worth ten such stopgaps. No woman of any wit would wear one. My dear worth ten such stopgaps. No woman of any wit would wear one. My dear
Kitty told me today that she would dance in a deluge before ever she Kitty told me today that she would dance in a deluge before ever she
would starve in such an ark of salvation for, as she reminded me would starve in such an ark of salvation for, as she reminded me
(blushing piquantly and whispering in my ear though there was none to (blushing piquantly and whispering in my ear though there was none to
snap her words but giddy butterflies), dame Nature, by the divine snap her words but giddy butterflies), dame Nature, by the divine
blessing, has implanted it in our hearts and it has become a household blessing, has implanted it in our hearts and it has become a household
word that IL Y A DEUX CHOSES for which the innocence of our original word that IL Y A DEUX CHOSES for which the innocence of our original
garb, in other circumstances a breach of the proprieties, is the fittest, garb, in other circumstances a breach of the proprieties, is the fittest,
nay, the only garment. The first, said she (and here my pretty nay, the only garment. The first, said she (and here my pretty
philosopher, as I handed her to her tilbury, to fix my attention, gently philosopher, as I handed her to her tilbury, to fix my attention, gently
tipped with her tongue the outer chamber of my ear), the first is a bath tipped with her tongue the outer chamber of my ear), the first is a bath
... But at this point a bell tinkling in the hall cut short a discourse ... But at this point a bell tinkling in the hall cut short a discourse
which promised so bravely for the enrichment of our store of knowledge. which promised so bravely for the enrichment of our store of knowledge.
Amid the general vacant hilarity of the assembly a bell rang and, while Amid the general vacant hilarity of the assembly a bell rang and, while
all were conjecturing what might be the cause, Miss Callan entered and, all were conjecturing what might be the cause, Miss Callan entered and,
having spoken a few words in a low tone to young Mr Dixon, retired with a having spoken a few words in a low tone to young Mr Dixon, retired with a
profound bow to the company. The presence even for a moment among a party profound bow to the company. The presence even for a moment among a party
of debauchees of a woman endued with every quality of modesty and not of debauchees of a woman endued with every quality of modesty and not
less severe than beautiful refrained the humourous sallies even of the less severe than beautiful refrained the humourous sallies even of the
most licentious but her departure was the signal for an outbreak of most licentious but her departure was the signal for an outbreak of
ribaldry. Strike me silly, said Costello, a low fellow who was fuddled. A ribaldry. Strike me silly, said Costello, a low fellow who was fuddled. A
monstrous fine bit of cowflesh! I'll be sworn she has rendezvoused you. monstrous fine bit of cowflesh! I'll be sworn she has rendezvoused you.
What, you dog? Have you a way with them? Gad's bud, immensely so, said Mr What, you dog? Have you a way with them? Gad's bud, immensely so, said Mr
Lynch. The bedside manner it is that they use in the Mater hospice. Lynch. The bedside manner it is that they use in the Mater hospice.
Demme, does not Doctor O'Gargle chuck the nuns there under the chin. As I Demme, does not Doctor O'Gargle chuck the nuns there under the chin. As I
look to be saved I had it from my Kitty who has been wardmaid there any look to be saved I had it from my Kitty who has been wardmaid there any
time these seven months. Lawksamercy, doctor, cried the young blood in time these seven months. Lawksamercy, doctor, cried the young blood in
the primrose vest, feigning a womanish simper and with immodest the primrose vest, feigning a womanish simper and with immodest
squirmings of his body, how you do tease a body! Drat the man! Bless me, squirmings of his body, how you do tease a body! Drat the man! Bless me,
I'm all of a wibbly wobbly. Why, you're as bad as dear little Father I'm all of a wibbly wobbly. Why, you're as bad as dear little Father
Cantekissem, that you are! May this pot of four half choke me, cried Cantekissem, that you are! May this pot of four half choke me, cried
Costello, if she aint in the family way. I knows a lady what's got a Costello, if she aint in the family way. I knows a lady what's got a
white swelling quick as I claps eyes on her. The young surgeon, however, white swelling quick as I claps eyes on her. The young surgeon, however,
rose and begged the company to excuse his retreat as the nurse had just rose and begged the company to excuse his retreat as the nurse had just
then informed him that he was needed in the ward. Merciful providence had then informed him that he was needed in the ward. Merciful providence had
been pleased to put a period to the sufferings of the lady who was been pleased to put a period to the sufferings of the lady who was
ENCEINTE which she had borne with a laudable fortitude and she had given ENCEINTE which she had borne with a laudable fortitude and she had given
birth to a bouncing boy. I want patience, said he, with those who, birth to a bouncing boy. I want patience, said he, with those who,
without wit to enliven or learning to instruct, revile an ennobling without wit to enliven or learning to instruct, revile an ennobling
profession which, saving the reverence due to the Deity, is the greatest profession which, saving the reverence due to the Deity, is the greatest
power for happiness upon the earth. I am positive when I say that if need power for happiness upon the earth. I am positive when I say that if need
were I could produce a cloud of witnesses to the excellence of her noble were I could produce a cloud of witnesses to the excellence of her noble
exercitations which, so far from being a byword, should be a glorious exercitations which, so far from being a byword, should be a glorious
incentive in the human breast. I cannot away with them. What? Malign such incentive in the human breast. I cannot away with them. What? Malign such
an one, the amiable Miss Callan, who is the lustre of her own sex and the an one, the amiable Miss Callan, who is the lustre of her own sex and the
astonishment of ours? And at an instant the most momentous that can astonishment of ours? And at an instant the most momentous that can
befall a puny child of clay? Perish the thought! I shudder to think of befall a puny child of clay? Perish the thought! I shudder to think of
the future of a race where the seeds of such malice have been sown and the future of a race where the seeds of such malice have been sown and
where no right reverence is rendered to mother and maid in house of where no right reverence is rendered to mother and maid in house of
Horne. Having delivered himself of this rebuke he saluted those present Horne. Having delivered himself of this rebuke he saluted those present
on the by and repaired to the door. A murmur of approval arose from all on the by and repaired to the door. A murmur of approval arose from all
and some were for ejecting the low soaker without more ado, a design and some were for ejecting the low soaker without more ado, a design
which would have been effected nor would he have received more than his which would have been effected nor would he have received more than his
bare deserts had he not abridged his transgression by affirming with a bare deserts had he not abridged his transgression by affirming with a
horrid imprecation (for he swore a round hand) that he was as good a son horrid imprecation (for he swore a round hand) that he was as good a son
of the true fold as ever drew breath. Stap my vitals, said he, them was of the true fold as ever drew breath. Stap my vitals, said he, them was
always the sentiments of honest Frank Costello which I was bred up most always the sentiments of honest Frank Costello which I was bred up most
particular to honour thy father and thy mother that had the best hand to particular to honour thy father and thy mother that had the best hand to
a rolypoly or a hasty pudding as you ever see what I always looks back on a rolypoly or a hasty pudding as you ever see what I always looks back on
with a loving heart. with a loving heart.
To revert to Mr Bloom who, after his first entry, had been conscious of To revert to Mr Bloom who, after his first entry, had been conscious of
some impudent mocks which he however had borne with as being the fruits some impudent mocks which he however had borne with as being the fruits
of that age upon which it is commonly charged that it knows not pity. The of that age upon which it is commonly charged that it knows not pity. The
young sparks, it is true, were as full of extravagancies as overgrown young sparks, it is true, were as full of extravagancies as overgrown
children: the words of their tumultuary discussions were difficultly children: the words of their tumultuary discussions were difficultly
understood and not often nice: their testiness and outrageous MOTS were understood and not often nice: their testiness and outrageous MOTS were
such that his intellects resiled from: nor were they scrupulously such that his intellects resiled from: nor were they scrupulously
sensible of the proprieties though their fund of strong animal spirits sensible of the proprieties though their fund of strong animal spirits
spoke in their behalf. But the word of Mr Costello was an unwelcome spoke in their behalf. But the word of Mr Costello was an unwelcome
language for him for he nauseated the wretch that seemed to him a language for him for he nauseated the wretch that seemed to him a
cropeared creature of a misshapen gibbosity, born out of wedlock and cropeared creature of a misshapen gibbosity, born out of wedlock and
thrust like a crookback toothed and feet first into the world, which the thrust like a crookback toothed and feet first into the world, which the
dint of the surgeon's pliers in his skull lent indeed a colour to, so as dint of the surgeon's pliers in his skull lent indeed a colour to, so as
to put him in thought of that missing link of creation's chain to put him in thought of that missing link of creation's chain
desiderated by the late ingenious Mr Darwin. It was now for more than the desiderated by the late ingenious Mr Darwin. It was now for more than the
middle span of our allotted years that he had passed through the thousand middle span of our allotted years that he had passed through the thousand
vicissitudes of existence and, being of a wary ascendancy and self a man vicissitudes of existence and, being of a wary ascendancy and self a man
of rare forecast, he had enjoined his heart to repress all motions of a of rare forecast, he had enjoined his heart to repress all motions of a
rising choler and, by intercepting them with the readiest precaution, rising choler and, by intercepting them with the readiest precaution,
foster within his breast that plenitude of sufferance which base minds foster within his breast that plenitude of sufferance which base minds
jeer at, rash judgers scorn and all find tolerable and but tolerable. To jeer at, rash judgers scorn and all find tolerable and but tolerable. To
those who create themselves wits at the cost of feminine delicacy (a those who create themselves wits at the cost of feminine delicacy (a
habit of mind which he never did hold with) to them he would concede habit of mind which he never did hold with) to them he would concede
neither to bear the name nor to herit the tradition of a proper breeding: neither to bear the name nor to herit the tradition of a proper breeding:
while for such that, having lost all forbearance, can lose no more, there while for such that, having lost all forbearance, can lose no more, there
remained the sharp antidote of experience to cause their insolency to remained the sharp antidote of experience to cause their insolency to
beat a precipitate and inglorious retreat. Not but what he could feel beat a precipitate and inglorious retreat. Not but what he could feel
with mettlesome youth which, caring nought for the mows of dotards or the with mettlesome youth which, caring nought for the mows of dotards or the
gruntlings of the severe, is ever (as the chaste fancy of the Holy Writer gruntlings of the severe, is ever (as the chaste fancy of the Holy Writer
expresses it) for eating of the tree forbid it yet not so far forth as to expresses it) for eating of the tree forbid it yet not so far forth as to
pretermit humanity upon any condition soever towards a gentlewoman when pretermit humanity upon any condition soever towards a gentlewoman when
she was about her lawful occasions. To conclude, while from the sister's she was about her lawful occasions. To conclude, while from the sister's
words he had reckoned upon a speedy delivery he was, however, it must be words he had reckoned upon a speedy delivery he was, however, it must be
owned, not a little alleviated by the intelligence that the issue so owned, not a little alleviated by the intelligence that the issue so
auspicated after an ordeal of such duress now testified once more to the auspicated after an ordeal of such duress now testified once more to the
mercy as well as to the bounty of the Supreme Being. mercy as well as to the bounty of the Supreme Being.
Accordingly he broke his mind to his neighbour, saying that, to express Accordingly he broke his mind to his neighbour, saying that, to express
his notion of the thing, his opinion (who ought not perchance to express his notion of the thing, his opinion (who ought not perchance to express
one) was that one must have a cold constitution and a frigid genius not one) was that one must have a cold constitution and a frigid genius not
to be rejoiced by this freshest news of the fruition of her confinement to be rejoiced by this freshest news of the fruition of her confinement
since she had been in such pain through no fault of hers. The dressy since she had been in such pain through no fault of hers. The dressy
young blade said it was her husband's that put her in that expectation or young blade said it was her husband's that put her in that expectation or
at least it ought to be unless she were another Ephesian matron. I must at least it ought to be unless she were another Ephesian matron. I must
acquaint you, said Mr Crotthers, clapping on the table so as to evoke a acquaint you, said Mr Crotthers, clapping on the table so as to evoke a
resonant comment of emphasis, old Glory Allelujurum was round again resonant comment of emphasis, old Glory Allelujurum was round again
today, an elderly man with dundrearies, preferring through his nose a today, an elderly man with dundrearies, preferring through his nose a
request to have word of Wilhelmina, my life, as he calls her. I bade him request to have word of Wilhelmina, my life, as he calls her. I bade him
hold himself in readiness for that the event would burst anon. 'Slife, hold himself in readiness for that the event would burst anon. 'Slife,
I'll be round with you. I cannot but extol the virile potency of the old I'll be round with you. I cannot but extol the virile potency of the old
bucko that could still knock another child out of her. All fell to bucko that could still knock another child out of her. All fell to
praising of it, each after his own fashion, though the same young blade praising of it, each after his own fashion, though the same young blade
held with his former view that another than her conjugial had been the held with his former view that another than her conjugial had been the
man in the gap, a clerk in orders, a linkboy (virtuous) or an itinerant man in the gap, a clerk in orders, a linkboy (virtuous) or an itinerant
vendor of articles needed in every household. Singular, communed the vendor of articles needed in every household. Singular, communed the
guest with himself, the wonderfully unequal faculty of metempsychosis guest with himself, the wonderfully unequal faculty of metempsychosis
possessed by them, that the puerperal dormitory and the dissecting possessed by them, that the puerperal dormitory and the dissecting
theatre should be the seminaries of such frivolity, that the mere theatre should be the seminaries of such frivolity, that the mere
acquisition of academic titles should suffice to transform in a pinch of acquisition of academic titles should suffice to transform in a pinch of
time these votaries of levity into exemplary practitioners of an art time these votaries of levity into exemplary practitioners of an art
which most men anywise eminent have esteemed the noblest. But, he further which most men anywise eminent have esteemed the noblest. But, he further
added, it is mayhap to relieve the pentup feelings that in common oppress added, it is mayhap to relieve the pentup feelings that in common oppress
them for I have more than once observed that birds of a feather laugh them for I have more than once observed that birds of a feather laugh
together. together.
But with what fitness, let it be asked of the noble lord, his patron, has But with what fitness, let it be asked of the noble lord, his patron, has
this alien, whom the concession of a gracious prince has admitted to this alien, whom the concession of a gracious prince has admitted to
civic rights, constituted himself the lord paramount of our internal civic rights, constituted himself the lord paramount of our internal
polity? Where is now that gratitude which loyalty should have counselled? polity? Where is now that gratitude which loyalty should have counselled?
During the recent war whenever the enemy had a temporary advantage with During the recent war whenever the enemy had a temporary advantage with
his granados did this traitor to his kind not seize that moment to his granados did this traitor to his kind not seize that moment to
discharge his piece against the empire of which he is a tenant at will discharge his piece against the empire of which he is a tenant at will
while he trembled for the security of his four per cents? Has he while he trembled for the security of his four per cents? Has he
forgotten this as he forgets all benefits received? Or is it that from forgotten this as he forgets all benefits received? Or is it that from
being a deluder of others he has become at last his own dupe as he is, if being a deluder of others he has become at last his own dupe as he is, if
report belie him not, his own and his only enjoyer? Far be it from report belie him not, his own and his only enjoyer? Far be it from
of the privy council, silent in unanimous exhaustion and approbation the of the privy council, silent in unanimous exhaustion and approbation the
delegates, chafing under the length and solemnity of their vigil and delegates, chafing under the length and solemnity of their vigil and
hoping that the joyful occurrence would palliate a licence which the hoping that the joyful occurrence would palliate a licence which the
simultaneous absence of abigail and obstetrician rendered the easier, simultaneous absence of abigail and obstetrician rendered the easier,
broke out at once into a strife of tongues. In vain the voice of Mr broke out at once into a strife of tongues. In vain the voice of Mr
Canvasser Bloom was heard endeavouring to urge, to mollify, to refrain. Canvasser Bloom was heard endeavouring to urge, to mollify, to refrain.
The moment was too propitious for the display of that discursiveness The moment was too propitious for the display of that discursiveness
which seemed the only bond of union among tempers so divergent. Every which seemed the only bond of union among tempers so divergent. Every
phase of the situation was successively eviscerated: the prenatal phase of the situation was successively eviscerated: the prenatal
repugnance of uterine brothers, the Caesarean section, posthumity with repugnance of uterine brothers, the Caesarean section, posthumity with
respect to the father and, that rarer form, with respect to the mother, respect to the father and, that rarer form, with respect to the mother,
the fratricidal case known as the Childs Murder and rendered memorable by the fratricidal case known as the Childs Murder and rendered memorable by
the impassioned plea of Mr Advocate Bushe which secured the acquittal of the impassioned plea of Mr Advocate Bushe which secured the acquittal of
the wrongfully accused, the rights of primogeniture and king's bounty the wrongfully accused, the rights of primogeniture and king's bounty
touching twins and triplets, miscarriages and infanticides, simulated or touching twins and triplets, miscarriages and infanticides, simulated or
dissimulated, the acardiac FOETUS IN FOETU and aprosopia due to a dissimulated, the acardiac FOETUS IN FOETU and aprosopia due to a
congestion, the agnathia of certain chinless Chinamen (cited by Mr congestion, the agnathia of certain chinless Chinamen (cited by Mr
Candidate Mulligan) in consequence of defective reunion of the maxillary Candidate Mulligan) in consequence of defective reunion of the maxillary
knobs along the medial line so that (as he said) one ear could hear what knobs along the medial line so that (as he said) one ear could hear what
the other spoke, the benefits of anesthesia or twilight sleep, the the other spoke, the benefits of anesthesia or twilight sleep, the
prolongation of labour pains in advanced gravidancy by reason of pressure prolongation of labour pains in advanced gravidancy by reason of pressure
on the vein, the premature relentment of the amniotic fluid (as on the vein, the premature relentment of the amniotic fluid (as
exemplified in the actual case) with consequent peril of sepsis to the exemplified in the actual case) with consequent peril of sepsis to the
matrix, artificial insemination by means of syringes, involution of the matrix, artificial insemination by means of syringes, involution of the
womb consequent upon the menopause, the problem of the perpetration of womb consequent upon the menopause, the problem of the perpetration of
the species in the case of females impregnated by delinquent rape, that the species in the case of females impregnated by delinquent rape, that
distressing manner of delivery called by the Brandenburghers STURZGEBURT, distressing manner of delivery called by the Brandenburghers STURZGEBURT,
the recorded instances of multiseminal, twikindled and monstrous births the recorded instances of multiseminal, twikindled and monstrous births
conceived during the catamenic period or of consanguineous parents--in a conceived during the catamenic period or of consanguineous parents--in a
word all the cases of human nativity which Aristotle has classified in word all the cases of human nativity which Aristotle has classified in
his masterpiece with chromolithographic illustrations. The gravest his masterpiece with chromolithographic illustrations. The gravest
problems of obstetrics and forensic medicine were examined with as much problems of obstetrics and forensic medicine were examined with as much
animation as the most popular beliefs on the state of pregnancy such as animation as the most popular beliefs on the state of pregnancy such as
the forbidding to a gravid woman to step over a countrystile lest, by her the forbidding to a gravid woman to step over a countrystile lest, by her
movement, the navelcord should strangle her creature and the injunction movement, the navelcord should strangle her creature and the injunction
upon her in the event of a yearning, ardently and ineffectually upon her in the event of a yearning, ardently and ineffectually
entertained, to place her hand against that part of her person which long entertained, to place her hand against that part of her person which long
usage has consecrated as the seat of castigation. The abnormalities of usage has consecrated as the seat of castigation. The abnormalities of
harelip, breastmole, supernumerary digits, negro's inkle, strawberry mark harelip, breastmole, supernumerary digits, negro's inkle, strawberry mark
and portwine stain were alleged by one as a PRIMA FACIE and natural and portwine stain were alleged by one as a PRIMA FACIE and natural
hypothetical explanation of those swineheaded (the case of Madame Grissel hypothetical explanation of those swineheaded (the case of Madame Grissel
Steevens was not forgotten) or doghaired infants occasionally born. The Steevens was not forgotten) or doghaired infants occasionally born. The
hypothesis of a plasmic memory, advanced by the Caledonian envoy and hypothesis of a plasmic memory, advanced by the Caledonian envoy and
worthy of the metaphysical traditions of the land he stood for, envisaged worthy of the metaphysical traditions of the land he stood for, envisaged
in such cases an arrest of embryonic development at some stage antecedent in such cases an arrest of embryonic development at some stage antecedent
to the human. An outlandish delegate sustained against both these views, to the human. An outlandish delegate sustained against both these views,
with such heat as almost carried conviction, the theory of copulation with such heat as almost carried conviction, the theory of copulation
between women and the males of brutes, his authority being his own between women and the males of brutes, his authority being his own
avouchment in support of fables such as that of the Minotaur which the avouchment in support of fables such as that of the Minotaur which the
genius of the elegant Latin poet has handed down to us in the pages of genius of the elegant Latin poet has handed down to us in the pages of
his Metamorphoses. The impression made by his words was immediate but his Metamorphoses. The impression made by his words was immediate but
shortlived. It was effaced as easily as it had been evoked by an shortlived. It was effaced as easily as it had been evoked by an
allocution from Mr Candidate Mulligan in that vein of pleasantry which allocution from Mr Candidate Mulligan in that vein of pleasantry which
none better than he knew how to affect, postulating as the supremest none better than he knew how to affect, postulating as the supremest
object of desire a nice clean old man. Contemporaneously, a heated object of desire a nice clean old man. Contemporaneously, a heated
argument having arisen between Mr Delegate Madden and Mr Candidate Lynch argument having arisen between Mr Delegate Madden and Mr Candidate Lynch
regarding the juridical and theological dilemma created in the event of regarding the juridical and theological dilemma created in the event of
one Siamese twin predeceasing the other, the difficulty by mutual consent one Siamese twin predeceasing the other, the difficulty by mutual consent
was referred to Mr Canvasser Bloom for instant submittal to Mr Coadjutor was referred to Mr Canvasser Bloom for instant submittal to Mr Coadjutor
Deacon Dedalus. Hitherto silent, whether the better to show by Deacon Dedalus. Hitherto silent, whether the better to show by
preternatural gravity that curious dignity of the garb with which he was preternatural gravity that curious dignity of the garb with which he was
invested or in obedience to an inward voice, he delivered briefly and, as invested or in obedience to an inward voice, he delivered briefly and, as
some thought, perfunctorily the ecclesiastical ordinance forbidding man some thought, perfunctorily the ecclesiastical ordinance forbidding man
to put asunder what God has joined. to put asunder what God has joined.
But Malachias' tale began to freeze them with horror. He conjured up the But Malachias' tale began to freeze them with horror. He conjured up the
scene before them. The secret panel beside the chimney slid back and in scene before them. The secret panel beside the chimney slid back and in
the recess appeared ... Haines! Which of us did not feel his flesh creep! the recess appeared ... Haines! Which of us did not feel his flesh creep!
He had a portfolio full of Celtic literature in one hand, in the other a He had a portfolio full of Celtic literature in one hand, in the other a
phial marked POISON. Surprise, horror, loathing were depicted on all phial marked POISON. Surprise, horror, loathing were depicted on all
faces while he eyed them with a ghostly grin. I anticipated some such faces while he eyed them with a ghostly grin. I anticipated some such
reception, he began with an eldritch laugh, for which, it seems, history reception, he began with an eldritch laugh, for which, it seems, history
is to blame. Yes, it is true. I am the murderer of Samuel Childs. And how is to blame. Yes, it is true. I am the murderer of Samuel Childs. And how
I am punished! The inferno has no terrors for me. This is the appearance I am punished! The inferno has no terrors for me. This is the appearance
is on me. Tare and ages, what way would I be resting at all, he muttered is on me. Tare and ages, what way would I be resting at all, he muttered
thickly, and I tramping Dublin this while back with my share of songs and thickly, and I tramping Dublin this while back with my share of songs and
himself after me the like of a soulth or a bullawurrus? My hell, and himself after me the like of a soulth or a bullawurrus? My hell, and
Ireland's, is in this life. It is what I tried to obliterate my crime. Ireland's, is in this life. It is what I tried to obliterate my crime.
Distractions, rookshooting, the Erse language (he recited some), laudanum Distractions, rookshooting, the Erse language (he recited some), laudanum
(he raised the phial to his lips), camping out. In vain! His spectre (he raised the phial to his lips), camping out. In vain! His spectre
stalks me. Dope is my only hope ... Ah! Destruction! The black panther! stalks me. Dope is my only hope ... Ah! Destruction! The black panther!
With a cry he suddenly vanished and the panel slid back. An instant later With a cry he suddenly vanished and the panel slid back. An instant later
his head appeared in the door opposite and said: Meet me at Westland Row his head appeared in the door opposite and said: Meet me at Westland Row
station at ten past eleven. He was gone. Tears gushed from the eyes of station at ten past eleven. He was gone. Tears gushed from the eyes of
the dissipated host. The seer raised his hand to heaven, murmuring: The the dissipated host. The seer raised his hand to heaven, murmuring: The
vendetta of Mananaun! The sage repeated: LEX TALIONIS. The sentimentalist vendetta of Mananaun! The sage repeated: LEX TALIONIS. The sentimentalist
is he who would enjoy without incurring the immense debtorship for a is he who would enjoy without incurring the immense debtorship for a
thing done. Malachias, overcome by emotion, ceased. The mystery was thing done. Malachias, overcome by emotion, ceased. The mystery was
unveiled. Haines was the third brother. His real name was Childs. The unveiled. Haines was the third brother. His real name was Childs. The
black panther was himself the ghost of his own father. He drank drugs to black panther was himself the ghost of his own father. He drank drugs to
obliterate. For this relief much thanks. The lonely house by the obliterate. For this relief much thanks. The lonely house by the
graveyard is uninhabited. No soul will live there. The spider pitches her graveyard is uninhabited. No soul will live there. The spider pitches her
web in the solitude. The nocturnal rat peers from his hole. A curse is on web in the solitude. The nocturnal rat peers from his hole. A curse is on
it. It is haunted. Murderer's ground. it. It is haunted. Murderer's ground.
What is the age of the soul of man? As she hath the virtue of the What is the age of the soul of man? As she hath the virtue of the
chameleon to change her hue at every new approach, to be gay with the chameleon to change her hue at every new approach, to be gay with the
merry and mournful with the downcast, so too is her age changeable as her merry and mournful with the downcast, so too is her age changeable as her
mood. No longer is Leopold, as he sits there, ruminating, chewing the cud mood. No longer is Leopold, as he sits there, ruminating, chewing the cud
of reminiscence, that staid agent of publicity and holder of a modest of reminiscence, that staid agent of publicity and holder of a modest
substance in the funds. A score of years are blown away. He is young substance in the funds. A score of years are blown away. He is young
Leopold. There, as in a retrospective arrangement, a mirror within a Leopold. There, as in a retrospective arrangement, a mirror within a
mirror (hey, presto!), he beholdeth himself. That young figure of then is mirror (hey, presto!), he beholdeth himself. That young figure of then is
seen, precociously manly, walking on a nipping morning from the old house seen, precociously manly, walking on a nipping morning from the old house
in Clanbrassil street to the high school, his booksatchel on him in Clanbrassil street to the high school, his booksatchel on him
bandolierwise, and in it a goodly hunk of wheaten loaf, a mother's bandolierwise, and in it a goodly hunk of wheaten loaf, a mother's
thought. Or it is the same figure, a year or so gone over, in his first thought. Or it is the same figure, a year or so gone over, in his first
hard hat (ah, that was a day!), already on the road, a fullfledged hard hat (ah, that was a day!), already on the road, a fullfledged
traveller for the family firm, equipped with an orderbook, a scented traveller for the family firm, equipped with an orderbook, a scented
handkerchief (not for show only), his case of bright trinketware (alas! a handkerchief (not for show only), his case of bright trinketware (alas! a
thing now of the past!) and a quiverful of compliant smiles for this or thing now of the past!) and a quiverful of compliant smiles for this or
that halfwon housewife reckoning it out upon her fingertips or for a that halfwon housewife reckoning it out upon her fingertips or for a
budding virgin, shyly acknowledging (but the heart? tell me!) his studied budding virgin, shyly acknowledging (but the heart? tell me!) his studied
baisemoins. The scent, the smile, but, more than these, the dark eyes and baisemoins. The scent, the smile, but, more than these, the dark eyes and
oleaginous address, brought home at duskfall many a commission to the oleaginous address, brought home at duskfall many a commission to the
head of the firm, seated with Jacob's pipe after like labours in the head of the firm, seated with Jacob's pipe after like labours in the
paternal ingle (a meal of noodles, you may be sure, is aheating), reading paternal ingle (a meal of noodles, you may be sure, is aheating), reading
through round horned spectacles some paper from the Europe of a month through round horned spectacles some paper from the Europe of a month
before. But hey, presto, the mirror is breathed on and the young before. But hey, presto, the mirror is breathed on and the young
knighterrant recedes, shrivels, dwindles to a tiny speck within the mist. knighterrant recedes, shrivels, dwindles to a tiny speck within the mist.
Now he is himself paternal and these about him might be his sons. Who can Now he is himself paternal and these about him might be his sons. Who can
say? The wise father knows his own child. He thinks of a drizzling night say? The wise father knows his own child. He thinks of a drizzling night
in Hatch street, hard by the bonded stores there, the first. Together in Hatch street, hard by the bonded stores there, the first. Together
(she is a poor waif, a child of shame, yours and mine and of all for a (she is a poor waif, a child of shame, yours and mine and of all for a
bare shilling and her luckpenny), together they hear the heavy tread of bare shilling and her luckpenny), together they hear the heavy tread of
the watch as two raincaped shadows pass the new royal university. Bridie! the watch as two raincaped shadows pass the new royal university. Bridie!
Bridie Kelly! He will never forget the name, ever remember the night: Bridie Kelly! He will never forget the name, ever remember the night:
first night, the bridenight. They are entwined in nethermost darkness, first night, the bridenight. They are entwined in nethermost darkness,
the willer with the willed, and in an instant (FIAT!) light shall flood the willer with the willed, and in an instant (FIAT!) light shall flood
the world. Did heart leap to heart? Nay, fair reader. In a breath 'twas the world. Did heart leap to heart? Nay, fair reader. In a breath 'twas
done but--hold! Back! It must not be! In terror the poor girl flees away done but--hold! Back! It must not be! In terror the poor girl flees away
through the murk. She is the bride of darkness, a daughter of night. She through the murk. She is the bride of darkness, a daughter of night. She
dare not bear the sunnygolden babe of day. No, Leopold. Name and memory dare not bear the sunnygolden babe of day. No, Leopold. Name and memory
solace thee not. That youthful illusion of thy strength was taken from solace thee not. That youthful illusion of thy strength was taken from
thee--and in vain. No son of thy loins is by thee. There is none now to thee--and in vain. No son of thy loins is by thee. There is none now to
be for Leopold, what Leopold was for Rudolph. be for Leopold, what Leopold was for Rudolph.
The voices blend and fuse in clouded silence: silence that is the The voices blend and fuse in clouded silence: silence that is the
infinite of space: and swiftly, silently the soul is wafted over regions infinite of space: and swiftly, silently the soul is wafted over regions
of cycles of generations that have lived. A region where grey twilight of cycles of generations that have lived. A region where grey twilight
ever descends, never falls on wide sagegreen pasturefields, shedding her ever descends, never falls on wide sagegreen pasturefields, shedding her
dusk, scattering a perennial dew of stars. She follows her mother with dusk, scattering a perennial dew of stars. She follows her mother with
ungainly steps, a mare leading her fillyfoal. Twilight phantoms are they, ungainly steps, a mare leading her fillyfoal. Twilight phantoms are they,
yet moulded in prophetic grace of structure, slim shapely haunches, a yet moulded in prophetic grace of structure, slim shapely haunches, a
supple tendonous neck, the meek apprehensive skull. They fade, sad supple tendonous neck, the meek apprehensive skull. They fade, sad
phantoms: all is gone. Agendath is a waste land, a home of screechowls phantoms: all is gone. Agendath is a waste land, a home of screechowls
and the sandblind upupa. Netaim, the golden, is no more. And on the and the sandblind upupa. Netaim, the golden, is no more. And on the
highway of the clouds they come, muttering thunder of rebellion, the highway of the clouds they come, muttering thunder of rebellion, the
ghosts of beasts. Huuh! Hark! Huuh! Parallax stalks behind and goads ghosts of beasts. Huuh! Hark! Huuh! Parallax stalks behind and goads
them, the lancinating lightnings of whose brow are scorpions. Elk and them, the lancinating lightnings of whose brow are scorpions. Elk and
yak, the bulls of Bashan and of Babylon, mammoth and mastodon, they come yak, the bulls of Bashan and of Babylon, mammoth and mastodon, they come
trooping to the sunken sea, LACUS MORTIS. Ominous revengeful zodiacal trooping to the sunken sea, LACUS MORTIS. Ominous revengeful zodiacal
host! They moan, passing upon the clouds, horned and capricorned, the host! They moan, passing upon the clouds, horned and capricorned, the
trumpeted with the tusked, the lionmaned, the giantantlered, snouter and trumpeted with the tusked, the lionmaned, the giantantlered, snouter and
crawler, rodent, ruminant and pachyderm, all their moving moaning crawler, rodent, ruminant and pachyderm, all their moving moaning
multitude, murderers of the sun. multitude, murderers of the sun.
Onward to the dead sea they tramp to drink, unslaked and with horrible Onward to the dead sea they tramp to drink, unslaked and with horrible
gulpings, the salt somnolent inexhaustible flood. And the equine portent gulpings, the salt somnolent inexhaustible flood. And the equine portent
grows again, magnified in the deserted heavens, nay to heaven's own grows again, magnified in the deserted heavens, nay to heaven's own
magnitude, till it looms, vast, over the house of Virgo. And lo, wonder magnitude, till it looms, vast, over the house of Virgo. And lo, wonder
of metempsychosis, it is she, the everlasting bride, harbinger of the of metempsychosis, it is she, the everlasting bride, harbinger of the
daystar, the bride, ever virgin. It is she, Martha, thou lost one, daystar, the bride, ever virgin. It is she, Martha, thou lost one,
Millicent, the young, the dear, the radiant. How serene does she now Millicent, the young, the dear, the radiant. How serene does she now
arise, a queen among the Pleiades, in the penultimate antelucan hour, arise, a queen among the Pleiades, in the penultimate antelucan hour,
shod in sandals of bright gold, coifed with a veil of what do you call it shod in sandals of bright gold, coifed with a veil of what do you call it
gossamer. It floats, it flows about her starborn flesh and loose it gossamer. It floats, it flows about her starborn flesh and loose it
streams, emerald, sapphire, mauve and heliotrope, sustained on currents streams, emerald, sapphire, mauve and heliotrope, sustained on currents
of the cold interstellar wind, winding, coiling, simply swirling, of the cold interstellar wind, winding, coiling, simply swirling,
writhing in the skies a mysterious writing till, after a myriad writhing in the skies a mysterious writing till, after a myriad
metamorphoses of symbol, it blazes, Alpha, a ruby and triangled sign upon metamorphoses of symbol, it blazes, Alpha, a ruby and triangled sign upon
the forehead of Taurus. the forehead of Taurus.
Francis was reminding Stephen of years before when they had been at Francis was reminding Stephen of years before when they had been at
school together in Conmee's time. He asked about Glaucon, Alcibiades, school together in Conmee's time. He asked about Glaucon, Alcibiades,
Pisistratus. Where were they now? Neither knew. You have spoken of the Pisistratus. Where were they now? Neither knew. You have spoken of the
past and its phantoms, Stephen said. Why think of them? If I call them past and its phantoms, Stephen said. Why think of them? If I call them
into life across the waters of Lethe will not the poor ghosts troop to my into life across the waters of Lethe will not the poor ghosts troop to my
call? Who supposes it? I, Bous Stephanoumenos, bullockbefriending bard, call? Who supposes it? I, Bous Stephanoumenos, bullockbefriending bard,
am lord and giver of their life. He encircled his gadding hair with a am lord and giver of their life. He encircled his gadding hair with a
coronal of vineleaves, smiling at Vincent. That answer and those leaves, coronal of vineleaves, smiling at Vincent. That answer and those leaves,
Vincent said to him, will adorn you more fitly when something more, and Vincent said to him, will adorn you more fitly when something more, and
greatly more, than a capful of light odes can call your genius father. greatly more, than a capful of light odes can call your genius father.
All who wish you well hope this for you. All desire to see you bring All who wish you well hope this for you. All desire to see you bring
forth the work you meditate, to acclaim you Stephaneforos. I heartily forth the work you meditate, to acclaim you Stephaneforos. I heartily
wish you may not fail them. O no, Vincent Lenehan said, laying a hand on wish you may not fail them. O no, Vincent Lenehan said, laying a hand on
the shoulder near him. Have no fear. He could not leave his mother an the shoulder near him. Have no fear. He could not leave his mother an
orphan. The young man's face grew dark. All could see how hard it was for orphan. The young man's face grew dark. All could see how hard it was for
him to be reminded of his promise and of his recent loss. He would have him to be reminded of his promise and of his recent loss. He would have
withdrawn from the feast had not the noise of voices allayed the smart. withdrawn from the feast had not the noise of voices allayed the smart.
Madden had lost five drachmas on Sceptre for a whim of the rider's name: Madden had lost five drachmas on Sceptre for a whim of the rider's name:
Lenehan as much more. He told them of the race. The flag fell and, huuh! Lenehan as much more. He told them of the race. The flag fell and, huuh!
off, scamper, the mare ran out freshly with O. Madden up. She was leading off, scamper, the mare ran out freshly with O. Madden up. She was leading
the field. All hearts were beating. Even Phyllis could not contain the field. All hearts were beating. Even Phyllis could not contain
herself. She waved her scarf and cried: Huzzah! Sceptre wins! But in the herself. She waved her scarf and cried: Huzzah! Sceptre wins! But in the
straight on the run home when all were in close order the dark horse straight on the run home when all were in close order the dark horse
Throwaway drew level, reached, outstripped her. All was lost now. Phyllis Throwaway drew level, reached, outstripped her. All was lost now. Phyllis
was silent: her eyes were sad anemones. Juno, she cried, I am undone. But was silent: her eyes were sad anemones. Juno, she cried, I am undone. But
her lover consoled her and brought her a bright casket of gold in which her lover consoled her and brought her a bright casket of gold in which
lay some oval sugarplums which she partook. A tear fell: one only. A lay some oval sugarplums which she partook. A tear fell: one only. A
whacking fine whip, said Lenehan, is W. Lane. Four winners yesterday and whacking fine whip, said Lenehan, is W. Lane. Four winners yesterday and
three today. What rider is like him? Mount him on the camel or the three today. What rider is like him? Mount him on the camel or the
boisterous buffalo the victory in a hack canter is still his. But let us boisterous buffalo the victory in a hack canter is still his. But let us
bear it as was the ancient wont. Mercy on the luckless! Poor Sceptre! he bear it as was the ancient wont. Mercy on the luckless! Poor Sceptre! he
said with a light sigh. She is not the filly that she was. Never, by this said with a light sigh. She is not the filly that she was. Never, by this
hand, shall we behold such another. By gad, sir, a queen of them. Do you hand, shall we behold such another. By gad, sir, a queen of them. Do you
remember her, Vincent? I wish you could have seen my queen today, Vincent remember her, Vincent? I wish you could have seen my queen today, Vincent
said. How young she was and radiant (Lalage were scarce fair beside her) said. How young she was and radiant (Lalage were scarce fair beside her)
in her yellow shoes and frock of muslin, I do not know the right name of in her yellow shoes and frock of muslin, I do not know the right name of
it. The chestnuts that shaded us were in bloom: the air drooped with it. The chestnuts that shaded us were in bloom: the air drooped with
their persuasive odour and with pollen floating by us. In the sunny their persuasive odour and with pollen floating by us. In the sunny
patches one might easily have cooked on a stone a batch of those buns patches one might easily have cooked on a stone a batch of those buns
with Corinth fruit in them that Periplipomenes sells in his booth near with Corinth fruit in them that Periplipomenes sells in his booth near
the bridge. But she had nought for her teeth but the arm with which I the bridge. But she had nought for her teeth but the arm with which I
held her and in that she nibbled mischievously when I pressed too close. held her and in that she nibbled mischievously when I pressed too close.
A week ago she lay ill, four days on the couch, but today she was free, A week ago she lay ill, four days on the couch, but today she was free,
blithe, mocked at peril. She is more taking then. Her posies tool Mad blithe, mocked at peril. She is more taking then. Her posies tool Mad
romp that she is, she had pulled her fill as we reclined together. And in romp that she is, she had pulled her fill as we reclined together. And in
your ear, my friend, you will not think who met us as we left the field. your ear, my friend, you will not think who met us as we left the field.
Conmee himself! He was walking by the hedge, reading, I think a brevier Conmee himself! He was walking by the hedge, reading, I think a brevier
book with, I doubt not, a witty letter in it from Glycera or Chloe to book with, I doubt not, a witty letter in it from Glycera or Chloe to
keep the page. The sweet creature turned all colours in her confusion, keep the page. The sweet creature turned all colours in her confusion,
feigning to reprove a slight disorder in her dress: a slip of underwood feigning to reprove a slight disorder in her dress: a slip of underwood
clung there for the very trees adore her. When Conmee had passed she clung there for the very trees adore her. When Conmee had passed she
glanced at her lovely echo in that little mirror she carries. But he had glanced at her lovely echo in that little mirror she carries. But he had
been kind. In going by he had blessed us. The gods too are ever kind, been kind. In going by he had blessed us. The gods too are ever kind,
Lenehan said. If I had poor luck with Bass's mare perhaps this draught of Lenehan said. If I had poor luck with Bass's mare perhaps this draught of
his may serve me more propensely. He was laying his hand upon a winejar: his may serve me more propensely. He was laying his hand upon a winejar:
Malachi saw it and withheld his act, pointing to the stranger and to the Malachi saw it and withheld his act, pointing to the stranger and to the
scarlet label. Warily, Malachi whispered, preserve a druid silence. His scarlet label. Warily, Malachi whispered, preserve a druid silence. His
soul is far away. It is as painful perhaps to be awakened from a vision soul is far away. It is as painful perhaps to be awakened from a vision
as to be born. Any object, intensely regarded, may be a gate of access to as to be born. Any object, intensely regarded, may be a gate of access to
the incorruptible eon of the gods. Do you not think it, Stephen? the incorruptible eon of the gods. Do you not think it, Stephen?
Theosophos told me so, Stephen answered, whom in a previous existence Theosophos told me so, Stephen answered, whom in a previous existence
Egyptian priests initiated into the mysteries of karmic law. The lords of Egyptian priests initiated into the mysteries of karmic law. The lords of
the moon, Theosophos told me, an orangefiery shipload from planet Alpha the moon, Theosophos told me, an orangefiery shipload from planet Alpha
of the lunar chain would not assume the etheric doubles and these were of the lunar chain would not assume the etheric doubles and these were
therefore incarnated by the rubycoloured egos from the second therefore incarnated by the rubycoloured egos from the second
constellation. constellation.
However, as a matter of fact though, the preposterous surmise about him However, as a matter of fact though, the preposterous surmise about him
being in some description of a doldrums or other or mesmerised which was. being in some description of a doldrums or other or mesmerised which was.
entirely due to a misconception of the shallowest character, was not the entirely due to a misconception of the shallowest character, was not the
case at all. The individual whose visual organs while the above was going case at all. The individual whose visual organs while the above was going
on were at this juncture commencing to exhibit symptoms of animation was on were at this juncture commencing to exhibit symptoms of animation was
as astute if not astuter than any man living and anybody that conjectured as astute if not astuter than any man living and anybody that conjectured
the contrary would have found themselves pretty speedily in the wrong the contrary would have found themselves pretty speedily in the wrong
shop. During the past four minutes or thereabouts he had been staring shop. During the past four minutes or thereabouts he had been staring
hard at a certain amount of number one Bass bottled by Messrs Bass and Co hard at a certain amount of number one Bass bottled by Messrs Bass and Co
at Burton-on-Trent which happened to be situated amongst a lot of others at Burton-on-Trent which happened to be situated amongst a lot of others
right opposite to where he was and which was certainly calculated to right opposite to where he was and which was certainly calculated to
attract anyone's remark on account of its scarlet appearance. He was attract anyone's remark on account of its scarlet appearance. He was
simply and solely, as it subsequently transpired for reasons best known simply and solely, as it subsequently transpired for reasons best known
to himself, which put quite an altogether different complexion on the to himself, which put quite an altogether different complexion on the
proceedings, after the moment before's observations about boyhood days proceedings, after the moment before's observations about boyhood days
and the turf, recollecting two or three private transactions of his own and the turf, recollecting two or three private transactions of his own
which the other two were as mutually innocent of as the babe unborn. which the other two were as mutually innocent of as the babe unborn.
Eventually, however, both their eyes met and as soon as it began to dawn Eventually, however, both their eyes met and as soon as it began to dawn
on him that the other was endeavouring to help himself to the thing he on him that the other was endeavouring to help himself to the thing he
involuntarily determined to help him himself and so he accordingly took involuntarily determined to help him himself and so he accordingly took
hold of the neck of the mediumsized glass recipient which contained the hold of the neck of the mediumsized glass recipient which contained the
fluid sought after and made a capacious hole in it by pouring a lot of it fluid sought after and made a capacious hole in it by pouring a lot of it
out with, also at the same time, however, a considerable degree of out with, also at the same time, however, a considerable degree of
attentiveness in order not to upset any of the beer that was in it about attentiveness in order not to upset any of the beer that was in it about
the place. the place.
The debate which ensued was in its scope and progress an epitome of the The debate which ensued was in its scope and progress an epitome of the
course of life. Neither place nor council was lacking in dignity. The course of life. Neither place nor council was lacking in dignity. The
debaters were the keenest in the land, the theme they were engaged on the debaters were the keenest in the land, the theme they were engaged on the
loftiest and most vital. The high hall of Horne's house had never beheld loftiest and most vital. The high hall of Horne's house had never beheld
an assembly so representative and so varied nor had the old rafters of an assembly so representative and so varied nor had the old rafters of
that establishment ever listened to a language so encyclopaedic. A that establishment ever listened to a language so encyclopaedic. A
gallant scene in truth it made. Crotthers was there at the foot of the gallant scene in truth it made. Crotthers was there at the foot of the
table in his striking Highland garb, his face glowing from the briny airs table in his striking Highland garb, his face glowing from the briny airs
of the Mull of Galloway. There too, opposite to him, was Lynch whose of the Mull of Galloway. There too, opposite to him, was Lynch whose
expresses it) for eating of the tree forbid it yet not so far forth as to expresses it) for eating of the tree forbid it yet not so far forth as to
pretermit humanity upon any condition soever towards a gentlewoman when pretermit humanity upon any condition soever towards a gentlewoman when
she was about her lawful occasions. To conclude, while from the sister's she was about her lawful occasions. To conclude, while from the sister's
words he had reckoned upon a speedy delivery he was, however, it must be words he had reckoned upon a speedy delivery he was, however, it must be
owned, not a little alleviated by the intelligence that the issue so owned, not a little alleviated by the intelligence that the issue so
auspicated after an ordeal of such duress now testified once more to the auspicated after an ordeal of such duress now testified once more to the
mercy as well as to the bounty of the Supreme Being. mercy as well as to the bounty of the Supreme Being.
Accordingly he broke his mind to his neighbour, saying that, to express Accordingly he broke his mind to his neighbour, saying that, to express
his notion of the thing, his opinion (who ought not perchance to express his notion of the thing, his opinion (who ought not perchance to express
one) was that one must have a cold constitution and a frigid genius not one) was that one must have a cold constitution and a frigid genius not
to be rejoiced by this freshest news of the fruition of her confinement to be rejoiced by this freshest news of the fruition of her confinement
since she had been in such pain through no fault of hers. The dressy since she had been in such pain through no fault of hers. The dressy
young blade said it was her husband's that put her in that expectation or young blade said it was her husband's that put her in that expectation or
at least it ought to be unless she were another Ephesian matron. I must at least it ought to be unless she were another Ephesian matron. I must
acquaint you, said Mr Crotthers, clapping on the table so as to evoke a acquaint you, said Mr Crotthers, clapping on the table so as to evoke a
resonant comment of emphasis, old Glory Allelujurum was round again resonant comment of emphasis, old Glory Allelujurum was round again
today, an elderly man with dundrearies, preferring through his nose a today, an elderly man with dundrearies, preferring through his nose a
request to have word of Wilhelmina, my life, as he calls her. I bade him request to have word of Wilhelmina, my life, as he calls her. I bade him
hold himself in readiness for that the event would burst anon. 'Slife, hold himself in readiness for that the event would burst anon. 'Slife,
I'll be round with you. I cannot but extol the virile potency of the old I'll be round with you. I cannot but extol the virile potency of the old
bucko that could still knock another child out of her. All fell to bucko that could still knock another child out of her. All fell to
praising of it, each after his own fashion, though the same young blade praising of it, each after his own fashion, though the same young blade
held with his former view that another than her conjugial had been the held with his former view that another than her conjugial had been the
man in the gap, a clerk in orders, a linkboy (virtuous) or an itinerant man in the gap, a clerk in orders, a linkboy (virtuous) or an itinerant
vendor of articles needed in every household. Singular, communed the vendor of articles needed in every household. Singular, communed the
guest with himself, the wonderfully unequal faculty of metempsychosis guest with himself, the wonderfully unequal faculty of metempsychosis
possessed by them, that the puerperal dormitory and the dissecting possessed by them, that the puerperal dormitory and the dissecting
theatre should be the seminaries of such frivolity, that the mere theatre should be the seminaries of such frivolity, that the mere
acquisition of academic titles should suffice to transform in a pinch of acquisition of academic titles should suffice to transform in a pinch of
time these votaries of levity into exemplary practitioners of an art time these votaries of levity into exemplary practitioners of an art
which most men anywise eminent have esteemed the noblest. But, he further which most men anywise eminent have esteemed the noblest. But, he further
added, it is mayhap to relieve the pentup feelings that in common oppress added, it is mayhap to relieve the pentup feelings that in common oppress
them for I have more than once observed that birds of a feather laugh them for I have more than once observed that birds of a feather laugh
together. together.
But with what fitness, let it be asked of the noble lord, his patron, has But with what fitness, let it be asked of the noble lord, his patron, has
this alien, whom the concession of a gracious prince has admitted to this alien, whom the concession of a gracious prince has admitted to
civic rights, constituted himself the lord paramount of our internal civic rights, constituted himself the lord paramount of our internal
polity? Where is now that gratitude which loyalty should have counselled? polity? Where is now that gratitude which loyalty should have counselled?
During the recent war whenever the enemy had a temporary advantage with During the recent war whenever the enemy had a temporary advantage with
his granados did this traitor to his kind not seize that moment to his granados did this traitor to his kind not seize that moment to
discharge his piece against the empire of which he is a tenant at will discharge his piece against the empire of which he is a tenant at will
while he trembled for the security of his four per cents? Has he while he trembled for the security of his four per cents? Has he
forgotten this as he forgets all benefits received? Or is it that from forgotten this as he forgets all benefits received? Or is it that from
being a deluder of others he has become at last his own dupe as he is, if being a deluder of others he has become at last his own dupe as he is, if
report belie him not, his own and his only enjoyer? Far be it from report belie him not, his own and his only enjoyer? Far be it from
candour to violate the bedchamber of a respectable lady, the daughter of candour to violate the bedchamber of a respectable lady, the daughter of
a gallant major, or to cast the most distant reflections upon her virtue a gallant major, or to cast the most distant reflections upon her virtue
but if he challenges attention there (as it was indeed highly his but if he challenges attention there (as it was indeed highly his
interest not to have done) then be it so. Unhappy woman, she has been too interest not to have done) then be it so. Unhappy woman, she has been too
long and too persistently denied her legitimate prerogative to listen to long and too persistently denied her legitimate prerogative to listen to
his objurgations with any other feeling than the derision of the his objurgations with any other feeling than the derision of the
desperate. He says this, a censor of morals, a very pelican in his piety, desperate. He says this, a censor of morals, a very pelican in his piety,
who did not scruple, oblivious of the ties of nature, to attempt illicit who did not scruple, oblivious of the ties of nature, to attempt illicit
intercourse with a female domestic drawn from the lowest strata of intercourse with a female domestic drawn from the lowest strata of
society! Nay, had the hussy's scouringbrush not been her tutelary angel, society! Nay, had the hussy's scouringbrush not been her tutelary angel,
it had gone with her as hard as with Hagar, the Egyptian! In the question it had gone with her as hard as with Hagar, the Egyptian! In the question
of the grazing lands his peevish asperity is notorious and in Mr Cuffe's of the grazing lands his peevish asperity is notorious and in Mr Cuffe's
hearing brought upon him from an indignant rancher a scathing retort hearing brought upon him from an indignant rancher a scathing retort
couched in terms as straightforward as they were bucolic. It ill becomes couched in terms as straightforward as they were bucolic. It ill becomes
him to preach that gospel. Has he not nearer home a seedfield that lies him to preach that gospel. Has he not nearer home a seedfield that lies
fallow for the want of the ploughshare? A habit reprehensible at puberty fallow for the want of the ploughshare? A habit reprehensible at puberty
is second nature and an opprobrium in middle life. If he must dispense is second nature and an opprobrium in middle life. If he must dispense
his balm of Gilead in nostrums and apothegms of dubious taste to restore his balm of Gilead in nostrums and apothegms of dubious taste to restore
to health a generation of unfledged profligates let his practice consist to health a generation of unfledged profligates let his practice consist
better with the doctrines that now engross him. His marital breast is the better with the doctrines that now engross him. His marital breast is the
repository of secrets which decorum is reluctant to adduce. The lewd repository of secrets which decorum is reluctant to adduce. The lewd
suggestions of some faded beauty may console him for a consort neglected suggestions of some faded beauty may console him for a consort neglected
and debauched but this new exponent of morals and healer of ills is at and debauched but this new exponent of morals and healer of ills is at
his best an exotic tree which, when rooted in its native orient, throve his best an exotic tree which, when rooted in its native orient, throve
and flourished and was abundant in balm but, transplanted to a clime more and flourished and was abundant in balm but, transplanted to a clime more
temperate, its roots have lost their quondam vigour while the stuff that temperate, its roots have lost their quondam vigour while the stuff that
comes away from it is stagnant, acid and inoperative. comes away from it is stagnant, acid and inoperative.
The news was imparted with a circumspection recalling the ceremonial The news was imparted with a circumspection recalling the ceremonial
usage of the Sublime Porte by the second female infirmarian to the junior usage of the Sublime Porte by the second female infirmarian to the junior
medical officer in residence, who in his turn announced to the delegation medical officer in residence, who in his turn announced to the delegation
that an heir had been born, When he had betaken himself to the women's that an heir had been born, When he had betaken himself to the women's
apartment to assist at the prescribed ceremony of the afterbirth in the apartment to assist at the prescribed ceremony of the afterbirth in the
presence of the secretary of state for domestic affairs and the members presence of the secretary of state for domestic affairs and the members
of the privy council, silent in unanimous exhaustion and approbation the of the privy council, silent in unanimous exhaustion and approbation the
delegates, chafing under the length and solemnity of their vigil and delegates, chafing under the length and solemnity of their vigil and
hoping that the joyful occurrence would palliate a licence which the hoping that the joyful occurrence would palliate a licence which the
simultaneous absence of abigail and obstetrician rendered the easier, simultaneous absence of abigail and obstetrician rendered the easier,
broke out at once into a strife of tongues. In vain the voice of Mr broke out at once into a strife of tongues. In vain the voice of Mr
Canvasser Bloom was heard endeavouring to urge, to mollify, to refrain. Canvasser Bloom was heard endeavouring to urge, to mollify, to refrain.
The moment was too propitious for the display of that discursiveness The moment was too propitious for the display of that discursiveness
which seemed the only bond of union among tempers so divergent. Every which seemed the only bond of union among tempers so divergent. Every
phase of the situation was successively eviscerated: the prenatal phase of the situation was successively eviscerated: the prenatal
repugnance of uterine brothers, the Caesarean section, posthumity with repugnance of uterine brothers, the Caesarean section, posthumity with
respect to the father and, that rarer form, with respect to the mother, respect to the father and, that rarer form, with respect to the mother,
the fratricidal case known as the Childs Murder and rendered memorable by the fratricidal case known as the Childs Murder and rendered memorable by
the impassioned plea of Mr Advocate Bushe which secured the acquittal of the impassioned plea of Mr Advocate Bushe which secured the acquittal of
the wrongfully accused, the rights of primogeniture and king's bounty the wrongfully accused, the rights of primogeniture and king's bounty
touching twins and triplets, miscarriages and infanticides, simulated or touching twins and triplets, miscarriages and infanticides, simulated or
dissimulated, the acardiac FOETUS IN FOETU and aprosopia due to a dissimulated, the acardiac FOETUS IN FOETU and aprosopia due to a
congestion, the agnathia of certain chinless Chinamen (cited by Mr congestion, the agnathia of certain chinless Chinamen (cited by Mr
Candidate Mulligan) in consequence of defective reunion of the maxillary Candidate Mulligan) in consequence of defective reunion of the maxillary
knobs along the medial line so that (as he said) one ear could hear what knobs along the medial line so that (as he said) one ear could hear what
the other spoke, the benefits of anesthesia or twilight sleep, the the other spoke, the benefits of anesthesia or twilight sleep, the
prolongation of labour pains in advanced gravidancy by reason of pressure prolongation of labour pains in advanced gravidancy by reason of pressure
on the vein, the premature relentment of the amniotic fluid (as on the vein, the premature relentment of the amniotic fluid (as
exemplified in the actual case) with consequent peril of sepsis to the exemplified in the actual case) with consequent peril of sepsis to the
matrix, artificial insemination by means of syringes, involution of the matrix, artificial insemination by means of syringes, involution of the
womb consequent upon the menopause, the problem of the perpetration of womb consequent upon the menopause, the problem of the perpetration of
the species in the case of females impregnated by delinquent rape, that the species in the case of females impregnated by delinquent rape, that
distressing manner of delivery called by the Brandenburghers STURZGEBURT, distressing manner of delivery called by the Brandenburghers STURZGEBURT,
the recorded instances of multiseminal, twikindled and monstrous births the recorded instances of multiseminal, twikindled and monstrous births
conceived during the catamenic period or of consanguineous parents--in a conceived during the catamenic period or of consanguineous parents--in a
word all the cases of human nativity which Aristotle has classified in word all the cases of human nativity which Aristotle has classified in
his masterpiece with chromolithographic illustrations. The gravest his masterpiece with chromolithographic illustrations. The gravest
problems of obstetrics and forensic medicine were examined with as much problems of obstetrics and forensic medicine were examined with as much
animation as the most popular beliefs on the state of pregnancy such as animation as the most popular beliefs on the state of pregnancy such as
the forbidding to a gravid woman to step over a countrystile lest, by her the forbidding to a gravid woman to step over a countrystile lest, by her
movement, the navelcord should strangle her creature and the injunction movement, the navelcord should strangle her creature and the injunction
upon her in the event of a yearning, ardently and ineffectually upon her in the event of a yearning, ardently and ineffectually
entertained, to place her hand against that part of her person which long entertained, to place her hand against that part of her person which long
usage has consecrated as the seat of castigation. The abnormalities of usage has consecrated as the seat of castigation. The abnormalities of
harelip, breastmole, supernumerary digits, negro's inkle, strawberry mark harelip, breastmole, supernumerary digits, negro's inkle, strawberry mark
and portwine stain were alleged by one as a PRIMA FACIE and natural and portwine stain were alleged by one as a PRIMA FACIE and natural
hypothetical explanation of those swineheaded (the case of Madame Grissel hypothetical explanation of those swineheaded (the case of Madame Grissel
Steevens was not forgotten) or doghaired infants occasionally born. The Steevens was not forgotten) or doghaired infants occasionally born. The
hypothesis of a plasmic memory, advanced by the Caledonian envoy and hypothesis of a plasmic memory, advanced by the Caledonian envoy and
worthy of the metaphysical traditions of the land he stood for, envisaged worthy of the metaphysical traditions of the land he stood for, envisaged
in such cases an arrest of embryonic development at some stage antecedent in such cases an arrest of embryonic development at some stage antecedent
to the human. An outlandish delegate sustained against both these views, to the human. An outlandish delegate sustained against both these views,
with such heat as almost carried conviction, the theory of copulation with such heat as almost carried conviction, the theory of copulation
between women and the males of brutes, his authority being his own between women and the males of brutes, his authority being his own
avouchment in support of fables such as that of the Minotaur which the avouchment in support of fables such as that of the Minotaur which the
genius of the elegant Latin poet has handed down to us in the pages of genius of the elegant Latin poet has handed down to us in the pages of
his Metamorphoses. The impression made by his words was immediate but his Metamorphoses. The impression made by his words was immediate but
shortlived. It was effaced as easily as it had been evoked by an shortlived. It was effaced as easily as it had been evoked by an
allocution from Mr Candidate Mulligan in that vein of pleasantry which allocution from Mr Candidate Mulligan in that vein of pleasantry which
none better than he knew how to affect, postulating as the supremest none better than he knew how to affect, postulating as the supremest
object of desire a nice clean old man. Contemporaneously, a heated object of desire a nice clean old man. Contemporaneously, a heated
argument having arisen between Mr Delegate Madden and Mr Candidate Lynch argument having arisen between Mr Delegate Madden and Mr Candidate Lynch
regarding the juridical and theological dilemma created in the event of regarding the juridical and theological dilemma created in the event of
one Siamese twin predeceasing the other, the difficulty by mutual consent one Siamese twin predeceasing the other, the difficulty by mutual consent
was referred to Mr Canvasser Bloom for instant submittal to Mr Coadjutor was referred to Mr Canvasser Bloom for instant submittal to Mr Coadjutor
Deacon Dedalus. Hitherto silent, whether the better to show by Deacon Dedalus. Hitherto silent, whether the better to show by
preternatural gravity that curious dignity of the garb with which he was preternatural gravity that curious dignity of the garb with which he was
invested or in obedience to an inward voice, he delivered briefly and, as invested or in obedience to an inward voice, he delivered briefly and, as
some thought, perfunctorily the ecclesiastical ordinance forbidding man some thought, perfunctorily the ecclesiastical ordinance forbidding man
to put asunder what God has joined. to put asunder what God has joined.
But Malachias' tale began to freeze them with horror. He conjured up the But Malachias' tale began to freeze them with horror. He conjured up the
scene before them. The secret panel beside the chimney slid back and in scene before them. The secret panel beside the chimney slid back and in
the recess appeared ... Haines! Which of us did not feel his flesh creep! the recess appeared ... Haines! Which of us did not feel his flesh creep!
He had a portfolio full of Celtic literature in one hand, in the other a He had a portfolio full of Celtic literature in one hand, in the other a
phial marked POISON. Surprise, horror, loathing were depicted on all phial marked POISON. Surprise, horror, loathing were depicted on all
faces while he eyed them with a ghostly grin. I anticipated some such faces while he eyed them with a ghostly grin. I anticipated some such
reception, he began with an eldritch laugh, for which, it seems, history reception, he began with an eldritch laugh, for which, it seems, history
is to blame. Yes, it is true. I am the murderer of Samuel Childs. And how is to blame. Yes, it is true. I am the murderer of Samuel Childs. And how
I am punished! The inferno has no terrors for me. This is the appearance I am punished! The inferno has no terrors for me. This is the appearance
is on me. Tare and ages, what way would I be resting at all, he muttered is on me. Tare and ages, what way would I be resting at all, he muttered
thickly, and I tramping Dublin this while back with my share of songs and thickly, and I tramping Dublin this while back with my share of songs and
himself after me the like of a soulth or a bullawurrus? My hell, and himself after me the like of a soulth or a bullawurrus? My hell, and
Ireland's, is in this life. It is what I tried to obliterate my crime. Ireland's, is in this life. It is what I tried to obliterate my crime.
Distractions, rookshooting, the Erse language (he recited some), laudanum Distractions, rookshooting, the Erse language (he recited some), laudanum
(he raised the phial to his lips), camping out. In vain! His spectre (he raised the phial to his lips), camping out. In vain! His spectre
stalks me. Dope is my only hope ... Ah! Destruction! The black panther! stalks me. Dope is my only hope ... Ah! Destruction! The black panther!
With a cry he suddenly vanished and the panel slid back. An instant later With a cry he suddenly vanished and the panel slid back. An instant later
his head appeared in the door opposite and said: Meet me at Westland Row his head appeared in the door opposite and said: Meet me at Westland Row
station at ten past eleven. He was gone. Tears gushed from the eyes of station at ten past eleven. He was gone. Tears gushed from the eyes of
the dissipated host. The seer raised his hand to heaven, murmuring: The the dissipated host. The seer raised his hand to heaven, murmuring: The
vendetta of Mananaun! The sage repeated: LEX TALIONIS. The sentimentalist vendetta of Mananaun! The sage repeated: LEX TALIONIS. The sentimentalist
is he who would enjoy without incurring the immense debtorship for a is he who would enjoy without incurring the immense debtorship for a
thing done. Malachias, overcome by emotion, ceased. The mystery was thing done. Malachias, overcome by emotion, ceased. The mystery was
unveiled. Haines was the third brother. His real name was Childs. The unveiled. Haines was the third brother. His real name was Childs. The
black panther was himself the ghost of his own father. He drank drugs to black panther was himself the ghost of his own father. He drank drugs to
obliterate. For this relief much thanks. The lonely house by the obliterate. For this relief much thanks. The lonely house by the
graveyard is uninhabited. No soul will live there. The spider pitches her graveyard is uninhabited. No soul will live there. The spider pitches her
web in the solitude. The nocturnal rat peers from his hole. A curse is on web in the solitude. The nocturnal rat peers from his hole. A curse is on
it. It is haunted. Murderer's ground. it. It is haunted. Murderer's ground.
What is the age of the soul of man? As she hath the virtue of the What is the age of the soul of man? As she hath the virtue of the
chameleon to change her hue at every new approach, to be gay with the chameleon to change her hue at every new approach, to be gay with the
merry and mournful with the downcast, so too is her age changeable as her merry and mournful with the downcast, so too is her age changeable as her
mood. No longer is Leopold, as he sits there, ruminating, chewing the cud mood. No longer is Leopold, as he sits there, ruminating, chewing the cud
of reminiscence, that staid agent of publicity and holder of a modest of reminiscence, that staid agent of publicity and holder of a modest
substance in the funds. A score of years are blown away. He is young substance in the funds. A score of years are blown away. He is young
Leopold. There, as in a retrospective arrangement, a mirror within a Leopold. There, as in a retrospective arrangement, a mirror within a
mirror (hey, presto!), he beholdeth himself. That young figure of then is mirror (hey, presto!), he beholdeth himself. That young figure of then is
seen, precociously manly, walking on a nipping morning from the old house seen, precociously manly, walking on a nipping morning from the old house
in Clanbrassil street to the high school, his booksatchel on him in Clanbrassil street to the high school, his booksatchel on him
bandolierwise, and in it a goodly hunk of wheaten loaf, a mother's bandolierwise, and in it a goodly hunk of wheaten loaf, a mother's
thought. Or it is the same figure, a year or so gone over, in his first thought. Or it is the same figure, a year or so gone over, in his first
hard hat (ah, that was a day!), already on the road, a fullfledged hard hat (ah, that was a day!), already on the road, a fullfledged
traveller for the family firm, equipped with an orderbook, a scented traveller for the family firm, equipped with an orderbook, a scented
handkerchief (not for show only), his case of bright trinketware (alas! a handkerchief (not for show only), his case of bright trinketware (alas! a
thing now of the past!) and a quiverful of compliant smiles for this or thing now of the past!) and a quiverful of compliant smiles for this or
that halfwon housewife reckoning it out upon her fingertips or for a that halfwon housewife reckoning it out upon her fingertips or for a
budding virgin, shyly acknowledging (but the heart? tell me!) his studied budding virgin, shyly acknowledging (but the heart? tell me!) his studied
baisemoins. The scent, the smile, but, more than these, the dark eyes and baisemoins. The scent, the smile, but, more than these, the dark eyes and
oleaginous address, brought home at duskfall many a commission to the oleaginous address, brought home at duskfall many a commission to the
head of the firm, seated with Jacob's pipe after like labours in the head of the firm, seated with Jacob's pipe after like labours in the
paternal ingle (a meal of noodles, you may be sure, is aheating), reading paternal ingle (a meal of noodles, you may be sure, is aheating), reading
through round horned spectacles some paper from the Europe of a month through round horned spectacles some paper from the Europe of a month
before. But hey, presto, the mirror is breathed on and the young before. But hey, presto, the mirror is breathed on and the young
knighterrant recedes, shrivels, dwindles to a tiny speck within the mist. knighterrant recedes, shrivels, dwindles to a tiny speck within the mist.
Now he is himself paternal and these about him might be his sons. Who can Now he is himself paternal and these about him might be his sons. Who can
say? The wise father knows his own child. He thinks of a drizzling night say? The wise father knows his own child. He thinks of a drizzling night
in Hatch street, hard by the bonded stores there, the first. Together in Hatch street, hard by the bonded stores there, the first. Together
(she is a poor waif, a child of shame, yours and mine and of all for a (she is a poor waif, a child of shame, yours and mine and of all for a
bare shilling and her luckpenny), together they hear the heavy tread of bare shilling and her luckpenny), together they hear the heavy tread of
the watch as two raincaped shadows pass the new royal university. Bridie! the watch as two raincaped shadows pass the new royal university. Bridie!
Bridie Kelly! He will never forget the name, ever remember the night: Bridie Kelly! He will never forget the name, ever remember the night:
first night, the bridenight. They are entwined in nethermost darkness, first night, the bridenight. They are entwined in nethermost darkness,
the willer with the willed, and in an instant (FIAT!) light shall flood the willer with the willed, and in an instant (FIAT!) light shall flood
the world. Did heart leap to heart? Nay, fair reader. In a breath 'twas the world. Did heart leap to heart? Nay, fair reader. In a breath 'twas
done but--hold! Back! It must not be! In terror the poor girl flees away done but--hold! Back! It must not be! In terror the poor girl flees away
through the murk. She is the bride of darkness, a daughter of night. She through the murk. She is the bride of darkness, a daughter of night. She
dare not bear the sunnygolden babe of day. No, Leopold. Name and memory dare not bear the sunnygolden babe of day. No, Leopold. Name and memory
solace thee not. That youthful illusion of thy strength was taken from solace thee not. That youthful illusion of thy strength was taken from
thee--and in vain. No son of thy loins is by thee. There is none now to thee--and in vain. No son of thy loins is by thee. There is none now to
be for Leopold, what Leopold was for Rudolph. be for Leopold, what Leopold was for Rudolph.
The voices blend and fuse in clouded silence: silence that is the The voices blend and fuse in clouded silence: silence that is the
infinite of space: and swiftly, silently the soul is wafted over regions infinite of space: and swiftly, silently the soul is wafted over regions
of cycles of generations that have lived. A region where grey twilight of cycles of generations that have lived. A region where grey twilight
ever descends, never falls on wide sagegreen pasturefields, shedding her ever descends, never falls on wide sagegreen pasturefields, shedding her
dusk, scattering a perennial dew of stars. She follows her mother with dusk, scattering a perennial dew of stars. She follows her mother with
ungainly steps, a mare leading her fillyfoal. Twilight phantoms are they, ungainly steps, a mare leading her fillyfoal. Twilight phantoms are they,
yet moulded in prophetic grace of structure, slim shapely haunches, a yet moulded in prophetic grace of structure, slim shapely haunches, a
supple tendonous neck, the meek apprehensive skull. They fade, sad supple tendonous neck, the meek apprehensive skull. They fade, sad
phantoms: all is gone. Agendath is a waste land, a home of screechowls phantoms: all is gone. Agendath is a waste land, a home of screechowls
and the sandblind upupa. Netaim, the golden, is no more. And on the and the sandblind upupa. Netaim, the golden, is no more. And on the
highway of the clouds they come, muttering thunder of rebellion, the highway of the clouds they come, muttering thunder of rebellion, the
ghosts of beasts. Huuh! Hark! Huuh! Parallax stalks behind and goads ghosts of beasts. Huuh! Hark! Huuh! Parallax stalks behind and goads
them, the lancinating lightnings of whose brow are scorpions. Elk and them, the lancinating lightnings of whose brow are scorpions. Elk and
yak, the bulls of Bashan and of Babylon, mammoth and mastodon, they come yak, the bulls of Bashan and of Babylon, mammoth and mastodon, they come
trooping to the sunken sea, LACUS MORTIS. Ominous revengeful zodiacal trooping to the sunken sea, LACUS MORTIS. Ominous revengeful zodiacal
host! They moan, passing upon the clouds, horned and capricorned, the host! They moan, passing upon the clouds, horned and capricorned, the
trumpeted with the tusked, the lionmaned, the giantantlered, snouter and trumpeted with the tusked, the lionmaned, the giantantlered, snouter and
crawler, rodent, ruminant and pachyderm, all their moving moaning crawler, rodent, ruminant and pachyderm, all their moving moaning
multitude, murderers of the sun. multitude, murderers of the sun.
Onward to the dead sea they tramp to drink, unslaked and with horrible Onward to the dead sea they tramp to drink, unslaked and with horrible
gulpings, the salt somnolent inexhaustible flood. And the equine portent gulpings, the salt somnolent inexhaustible flood. And the equine portent
grows again, magnified in the deserted heavens, nay to heaven's own grows again, magnified in the deserted heavens, nay to heaven's own
magnitude, till it looms, vast, over the house of Virgo. And lo, wonder magnitude, till it looms, vast, over the house of Virgo. And lo, wonder
of metempsychosis, it is she, the everlasting bride, harbinger of the of metempsychosis, it is she, the everlasting bride, harbinger of the
daystar, the bride, ever virgin. It is she, Martha, thou lost one, daystar, the bride, ever virgin. It is she, Martha, thou lost one,
Millicent, the young, the dear, the radiant. How serene does she now Millicent, the young, the dear, the radiant. How serene does she now
arise, a queen among the Pleiades, in the penultimate antelucan hour, arise, a queen among the Pleiades, in the penultimate antelucan hour,
shod in sandals of bright gold, coifed with a veil of what do you call it shod in sandals of bright gold, coifed with a veil of what do you call it
gossamer. It floats, it flows about her starborn flesh and loose it gossamer. It floats, it flows about her starborn flesh and loose it
streams, emerald, sapphire, mauve and heliotrope, sustained on currents streams, emerald, sapphire, mauve and heliotrope, sustained on currents
of the cold interstellar wind, winding, coiling, simply swirling, of the cold interstellar wind, winding, coiling, simply swirling,
writhing in the skies a mysterious writing till, after a myriad writhing in the skies a mysterious writing till, after a myriad
metamorphoses of symbol, it blazes, Alpha, a ruby and triangled sign upon metamorphoses of symbol, it blazes, Alpha, a ruby and triangled sign upon
the forehead of Taurus. the forehead of Taurus.
Francis was reminding Stephen of years before when they had been at Francis was reminding Stephen of years before when they had been at
school together in Conmee's time. He asked about Glaucon, Alcibiades, school together in Conmee's time. He asked about Glaucon, Alcibiades,
Pisistratus. Where were they now? Neither knew. You have spoken of the Pisistratus. Where were they now? Neither knew. You have spoken of the
past and its phantoms, Stephen said. Why think of them? If I call them past and its phantoms, Stephen said. Why think of them? If I call them
into life across the waters of Lethe will not the poor ghosts troop to my into life across the waters of Lethe will not the poor ghosts troop to my
call? Who supposes it? I, Bous Stephanoumenos, bullockbefriending bard, call? Who supposes it? I, Bous Stephanoumenos, bullockbefriending bard,
am lord and giver of their life. He encircled his gadding hair with a am lord and giver of their life. He encircled his gadding hair with a
coronal of vineleaves, smiling at Vincent. That answer and those leaves, coronal of vineleaves, smiling at Vincent. That answer and those leaves,
Vincent said to him, will adorn you more fitly when something more, and Vincent said to him, will adorn you more fitly when something more, and
greatly more, than a capful of light odes can call your genius father. greatly more, than a capful of light odes can call your genius father.
All who wish you well hope this for you. All desire to see you bring All who wish you well hope this for you. All desire to see you bring
forth the work you meditate, to acclaim you Stephaneforos. I heartily forth the work you meditate, to acclaim you Stephaneforos. I heartily
wish you may not fail them. O no, Vincent Lenehan said, laying a hand on wish you may not fail them. O no, Vincent Lenehan said, laying a hand on
the shoulder near him. Have no fear. He could not leave his mother an the shoulder near him. Have no fear. He could not leave his mother an
orphan. The young man's face grew dark. All could see how hard it was for orphan. The young man's face grew dark. All could see how hard it was for
him to be reminded of his promise and of his recent loss. He would have him to be reminded of his promise and of his recent loss. He would have
withdrawn from the feast had not the noise of voices allayed the smart. withdrawn from the feast had not the noise of voices allayed the smart.
Madden had lost five drachmas on Sceptre for a whim of the rider's name: Madden had lost five drachmas on Sceptre for a whim of the rider's name:
Lenehan as much more. He told them of the race. The flag fell and, huuh! Lenehan as much more. He told them of the race. The flag fell and, huuh!
off, scamper, the mare ran out freshly with O. Madden up. She was leading off, scamper, the mare ran out freshly with O. Madden up. She was leading
the field. All hearts were beating. Even Phyllis could not contain the field. All hearts were beating. Even Phyllis could not contain
herself. She waved her scarf and cried: Huzzah! Sceptre wins! But in the herself. She waved her scarf and cried: Huzzah! Sceptre wins! But in the
straight on the run home when all were in close order the dark horse straight on the run home when all were in close order the dark horse
Throwaway drew level, reached, outstripped her. All was lost now. Phyllis Throwaway drew level, reached, outstripped her. All was lost now. Phyllis
was silent: her eyes were sad anemones. Juno, she cried, I am undone. But was silent: her eyes were sad anemones. Juno, she cried, I am undone. But
her lover consoled her and brought her a bright casket of gold in which her lover consoled her and brought her a bright casket of gold in which
lay some oval sugarplums which she partook. A tear fell: one only. A lay some oval sugarplums which she partook. A tear fell: one only. A
whacking fine whip, said Lenehan, is W. Lane. Four winners yesterday and whacking fine whip, said Lenehan, is W. Lane. Four winners yesterday and
three today. What rider is like him? Mount him on the camel or the three today. What rider is like him? Mount him on the camel or the
boisterous buffalo the victory in a hack canter is still his. But let us boisterous buffalo the victory in a hack canter is still his. But let us
bear it as was the ancient wont. Mercy on the luckless! Poor Sceptre! he bear it as was the ancient wont. Mercy on the luckless! Poor Sceptre! he
said with a light sigh. She is not the filly that she was. Never, by this said with a light sigh. She is not the filly that she was. Never, by this
hand, shall we behold such another. By gad, sir, a queen of them. Do you hand, shall we behold such another. By gad, sir, a queen of them. Do you
remember her, Vincent? I wish you could have seen my queen today, Vincent remember her, Vincent? I wish you could have seen my queen today, Vincent
said. How young she was and radiant (Lalage were scarce fair beside her) said. How young she was and radiant (Lalage were scarce fair beside her)
in her yellow shoes and frock of muslin, I do not know the right name of in her yellow shoes and frock of muslin, I do not know the right name of
it. The chestnuts that shaded us were in bloom: the air drooped with it. The chestnuts that shaded us were in bloom: the air drooped with
their persuasive odour and with pollen floating by us. In the sunny their persuasive odour and with pollen floating by us. In the sunny
patches one might easily have cooked on a stone a batch of those buns patches one might easily have cooked on a stone a batch of those buns
with Corinth fruit in them that Periplipomenes sells in his booth near with Corinth fruit in them that Periplipomenes sells in his booth near
the bridge. But she had nought for her teeth but the arm with which I the bridge. But she had nought for her teeth but the arm with which I
held her and in that she nibbled mischievously when I pressed too close. held her and in that she nibbled mischievously when I pressed too close.
A week ago she lay ill, four days on the couch, but today she was free, A week ago she lay ill, four days on the couch, but today she was free,
playbox, Haines and I, the plumbers' hall. Our players are creating a new playbox, Haines and I, the plumbers' hall. Our players are creating a new
art for Europe like the Greeks or M. Maeterlinck. Abbey Theatre! I smell art for Europe like the Greeks or M. Maeterlinck. Abbey Theatre! I smell
the pubic sweat of monks. the pubic sweat of monks.
He spat blank. He spat blank.
Forgot: any more than he forgot the whipping lousy Lucy gave him. Forgot: any more than he forgot the whipping lousy Lucy gave him.
And left the FEMME DE TRENTE ANS. And why no other children born? And his And left the FEMME DE TRENTE ANS. And why no other children born? And his
first child a girl? first child a girl?
Afterwit. Go back. Afterwit. Go back.
The dour recluse still there (he has his cake) and the douce youngling, The dour recluse still there (he has his cake) and the douce youngling,
minion of pleasure, Phedo's toyable fair hair. minion of pleasure, Phedo's toyable fair hair.
Eh ... I just eh ... wanted ... I forgot ... he ... Eh ... I just eh ... wanted ... I forgot ... he ...
--Longworth and M'Curdy Atkinson were there ... --Longworth and M'Curdy Atkinson were there ...
Puck Mulligan footed featly, trilling: Puck Mulligan footed featly, trilling:
    I HARDLY HEAR THE PURLIEU CRY     I HARDLY HEAR THE PURLIEU CRY
    OR A TOMMY TALK AS I PASS ONE BY     OR A TOMMY TALK AS I PASS ONE BY
    BEFORE MY THOUGHTS BEGIN TO RUN     BEFORE MY THOUGHTS BEGIN TO RUN
    ON F. M'CURDY ATKINSON,     ON F. M'CURDY ATKINSON,
    THE SAME THAT HAD THE WOODEN LEG     THE SAME THAT HAD THE WOODEN LEG
    AND THAT FILIBUSTERING FILIBEG     AND THAT FILIBUSTERING FILIBEG
    THAT NEVER DARED TO SLAKE HIS DROUTH,     THAT NEVER DARED TO SLAKE HIS DROUTH,
    MAGEE THAT HAD THE CHINLESS MOUTH.     MAGEE THAT HAD THE CHINLESS MOUTH.
    BEING AFRAID TO MARRY ON EARTH     BEING AFRAID TO MARRY ON EARTH
    THEY MASTURBATED FOR ALL THEY WERE WORTH.     THEY MASTURBATED FOR ALL THEY WERE WORTH.
Jest on. Know thyself. Jest on. Know thyself.
Halted, below me, a quizzer looks at me. I halt. Halted, below me, a quizzer looks at me. I halt.
--Mournful mummer, Buck Mulligan moaned. Synge has left off wearing --Mournful mummer, Buck Mulligan moaned. Synge has left off wearing
black to be like nature. Only crows, priests and English coal are black. black to be like nature. Only crows, priests and English coal are black.
A laugh tripped over his lips. A laugh tripped over his lips.
--Longworth is awfully sick, he said, after what you wrote about that old --Longworth is awfully sick, he said, after what you wrote about that old
hake Gregory. O you inquisitional drunken jewjesuit! She gets you a job on hake Gregory. O you inquisitional drunken jewjesuit! She gets you a job on
the paper and then you go and slate her drivel to Jaysus. Couldn't you do the paper and then you go and slate her drivel to Jaysus. Couldn't you do
the Yeats touch? the Yeats touch?
He went on and down, mopping, chanting with waving graceful arms: He went on and down, mopping, chanting with waving graceful arms:
--The most beautiful book that has come out of our country in my time. --The most beautiful book that has come out of our country in my time.
One thinks of Homer. One thinks of Homer.
He stopped at the stairfoot. He stopped at the stairfoot.
--I have conceived a play for the mummers, he said solemnly. --I have conceived a play for the mummers, he said solemnly.
The pillared Moorish hall, shadows entwined. Gone the nine men's The pillared Moorish hall, shadows entwined. Gone the nine men's
morrice with caps of indices. morrice with caps of indices.
In sweetly varying voices Buck Mulligan read his tablet: In sweetly varying voices Buck Mulligan read his tablet:
        EVERYMAN HIS OWN WIFE         EVERYMAN HIS OWN WIFE
                OR                 OR
        A HONEYMOON IN THE HAND         A HONEYMOON IN THE HAND
    (A NATIONAL IMMORALITY IN THREE ORGASMS)     (A NATIONAL IMMORALITY IN THREE ORGASMS)
                BY                 BY
        BALLOCKY MULLIGAN         BALLOCKY MULLIGAN
He turned a happy patch's smirk to Stephen, saying: He turned a happy patch's smirk to Stephen, saying:
--The disguise, I fear, is thin. But listen. --The disguise, I fear, is thin. But listen.
He read, MARCATO: He read, MARCATO:
--Characters: --Characters:
    TODY TOSTOFF (a ruined Pole)     TODY TOSTOFF (a ruined Pole)
    CRAB (a bushranger)     CRAB (a bushranger)
    MEDICAL DICK  )     MEDICAL DICK  )
        and       ) (two birds with one stone)         and       ) (two birds with one stone)
    MEDICAL DAVY  )     MEDICAL DAVY  )
    MOTHER GROGAN (a watercarrier)     MOTHER GROGAN (a watercarrier)
    FRESH NELLY     FRESH NELLY
        and         and
    ROSALIE (the coalquay whore).     ROSALIE (the coalquay whore).
He laughed, lolling a to and fro head, walking on, followed by Stephen: He laughed, lolling a to and fro head, walking on, followed by Stephen:
and mirthfully he told the shadows, souls of men: and mirthfully he told the shadows, souls of men:
--O, the night in the Camden hall when the daughters of Erin had to lift --O, the night in the Camden hall when the daughters of Erin had to lift
their skirts to step over you as you lay in your mulberrycoloured, their skirts to step over you as you lay in your mulberrycoloured,
multicoloured, multitudinous vomit! multicoloured, multitudinous vomit!
--The most innocent son of Erin, Stephen said, for whom they ever lifted --The most innocent son of Erin, Stephen said, for whom they ever lifted
them. them.
About to pass through the doorway, feeling one behind, he stood aside. About to pass through the doorway, feeling one behind, he stood aside.
Part. The moment is now. Where then? If Socrates leave his house Part. The moment is now. Where then? If Socrates leave his house
today, if Judas go forth tonight. Why? That lies in space which I in time today, if Judas go forth tonight. Why? That lies in space which I in time
must come to, ineluctably. must come to, ineluctably.
My will: his will that fronts me. Seas between. My will: his will that fronts me. Seas between.
A man passed out between them, bowing, greeting. A man passed out between them, bowing, greeting.
--Good day again, Buck Mulligan said. --Good day again, Buck Mulligan said.
The portico. The portico.
Here I watched the birds for augury. Aengus of the birds. They go, Here I watched the birds for augury. Aengus of the birds. They go,
they come. Last night I flew. Easily flew. Men wondered. Street of harlots they come. Last night I flew. Easily flew. Men wondered. Street of harlots
after. A creamfruit melon he held to me. In. You will see. after. A creamfruit melon he held to me. In. You will see.
--The wandering jew, Buck Mulligan whispered with clown's awe. Did you --The wandering jew, Buck Mulligan whispered with clown's awe. Did you
see his eye? He looked upon you to lust after you. I fear thee, ancient see his eye? He looked upon you to lust after you. I fear thee, ancient
mariner. O, Kinch, thou art in peril. Get thee a breechpad. mariner. O, Kinch, thou art in peril. Get thee a breechpad.
Manner of Oxenford. Manner of Oxenford.
Day. Wheelbarrow sun over arch of bridge. Day. Wheelbarrow sun over arch of bridge.
A dark back went before them, step of a pard, down, out by the A dark back went before them, step of a pard, down, out by the
gateway, under portcullis barbs. gateway, under portcullis barbs.
They followed. They followed.
Offend me still. Speak on. Offend me still. Speak on.
Kind air defined the coigns of houses in Kildare street. No birds. Frail Kind air defined the coigns of houses in Kildare street. No birds. Frail
from the housetops two plumes of smoke ascended, pluming, and in a flaw from the housetops two plumes of smoke ascended, pluming, and in a flaw
of softness softly were blown. of softness softly were blown.
Cease to strive. Peace of the druid priests of Cymbeline: hierophantic: Cease to strive. Peace of the druid priests of Cymbeline: hierophantic:
from wide earth an altar. from wide earth an altar.
    LAUD WE THE GODS     LAUD WE THE GODS
    AND LET OUR CROOKED SMOKES CLIMB TO THEIR NOSTRILS     AND LET OUR CROOKED SMOKES CLIMB TO THEIR NOSTRILS
    FROM OUR BLESS'D ALTARS.     FROM OUR BLESS'D ALTARS.
    * * * * * * *     * * * * * * *
The superior, the very reverend John Conmee S.J. reset his smooth The superior, the very reverend John Conmee S.J. reset his smooth
watch in his interior pocket as he came down the presbytery steps. Five to watch in his interior pocket as he came down the presbytery steps. Five to
three. Just nice time to walk to Artane. What was that boy's name again? three. Just nice time to walk to Artane. What was that boy's name again?
Dignam. Yes. VERE DIGNUM ET IUSTUM EST. Brother Swan was the person to Dignam. Yes. VERE DIGNUM ET IUSTUM EST. Brother Swan was the person to
see. Mr Cunningham's letter. Yes. Oblige him, if possible. Good practical see. Mr Cunningham's letter. Yes. Oblige him, if possible. Good practical
catholic: useful at mission time. catholic: useful at mission time.
A onelegged sailor, swinging himself onward by lazy jerks of his A onelegged sailor, swinging himself onward by lazy jerks of his
crutches, growled some notes. He jerked short before the convent of the crutches, growled some notes. He jerked short before the convent of the
sisters of charity and held out a peaked cap for alms towards the very sisters of charity and held out a peaked cap for alms towards the very
reverend John Conmee S. J. Father Conmee blessed him in the sun for his reverend John Conmee S. J. Father Conmee blessed him in the sun for his
purse held, he knew, one silver crown. purse held, he knew, one silver crown.
Father Conmee crossed to Mountjoy square. He thought, but not for Father Conmee crossed to Mountjoy square. He thought, but not for
long, of soldiers and sailors, whose legs had been shot off by long, of soldiers and sailors, whose legs had been shot off by
cannonballs, ending their days in some pauper ward, and of cardinal cannonballs, ending their days in some pauper ward, and of cardinal
Wolsey's words: IF I HAD SERVED MY GOD AS I HAVE SERVED MY KING HE WOULD Wolsey's words: IF I HAD SERVED MY GOD AS I HAVE SERVED MY KING HE WOULD
NOT HAVE ABANDONED ME IN MY OLD DAYS. He walked by the treeshade of NOT HAVE ABANDONED ME IN MY OLD DAYS. He walked by the treeshade of
sunnywinking leaves: and towards him came the wife of Mr David Sheehy sunnywinking leaves: and towards him came the wife of Mr David Sheehy
M.P. M.P.
--Very well, indeed, father. And you, father? --Very well, indeed, father. And you, father?
Father Conmee was wonderfully well indeed. He would go to Buxton Father Conmee was wonderfully well indeed. He would go to Buxton
probably for the waters. And her boys, were they getting on well at probably for the waters. And her boys, were they getting on well at
Belvedere? Was that so? Father Conmee was very glad indeed to hear that. Belvedere? Was that so? Father Conmee was very glad indeed to hear that.
And Mr Sheehy himself? Still in London. The house was still sitting, to be And Mr Sheehy himself? Still in London. The house was still sitting, to be
sure it was. Beautiful weather it was, delightful indeed. Yes, it was very sure it was. Beautiful weather it was, delightful indeed. Yes, it was very
probable that Father Bernard Vaughan would come again to preach. O, probable that Father Bernard Vaughan would come again to preach. O,
yes: a very great success. A wonderful man really. yes: a very great success. A wonderful man really.
Father Conmee was very glad to see the wife of Mr David Sheehy Father Conmee was very glad to see the wife of Mr David Sheehy
M.P. Iooking so well and he begged to be remembered to Mr David Sheehy M.P. Iooking so well and he begged to be remembered to Mr David Sheehy
M.P. Yes, he would certainly call. M.P. Yes, he would certainly call.
--Good afternoon, Mrs Sheehy. --Good afternoon, Mrs Sheehy.
Father Conmee doffed his silk hat and smiled, as he took leave, at the Father Conmee doffed his silk hat and smiled, as he took leave, at the
jet beads of her mantilla inkshining in the sun. And smiled yet again, in jet beads of her mantilla inkshining in the sun. And smiled yet again, in
going. He had cleaned his teeth, he knew, with arecanut paste. going. He had cleaned his teeth, he knew, with arecanut paste.
Father Conmee walked and, walking, smiled for he thought on Father Father Conmee walked and, walking, smiled for he thought on Father
Bernard Vaughan's droll eyes and cockney voice. Bernard Vaughan's droll eyes and cockney voice.
--Pilate! Wy don't you old back that owlin mob? --Pilate! Wy don't you old back that owlin mob?
A zealous man, however. Really he was. And really did great good in. A zealous man, however. Really he was. And really did great good in.
his way. Beyond a doubt. He loved Ireland, he said, and he loved the his way. Beyond a doubt. He loved Ireland, he said, and he loved the
Irish. Of good family too would one think it? Welsh, were they not? Irish. Of good family too would one think it? Welsh, were they not?
O, lest he forget. That letter to father provincial. O, lest he forget. That letter to father provincial.
Father Conmee stopped three little schoolboys at the corner of Father Conmee stopped three little schoolboys at the corner of
Mountjoy square. Yes: they were from Belvedere. The little house. Aha. Mountjoy square. Yes: they were from Belvedere. The little house. Aha.
And were they good boys at school? O. That was very good now. And what And were they good boys at school? O. That was very good now. And what
was his name? Jack Sohan. And his name? Ger. Gallaher. And the other was his name? Jack Sohan. And his name? Ger. Gallaher. And the other
little man? His name was Brunny Lynam. O, that was a very nice name to little man? His name was Brunny Lynam. O, that was a very nice name to
have. have.
Father Conmee gave a letter from his breast to Master Brunny Lynam Father Conmee gave a letter from his breast to Master Brunny Lynam
and pointed to the red pillarbox at the corner of Fitzgibbon street. and pointed to the red pillarbox at the corner of Fitzgibbon street.
--But mind you don't post yourself into the box, little man, he said. --But mind you don't post yourself into the box, little man, he said.
The boys sixeyed Father Conmee and laughed: The boys sixeyed Father Conmee and laughed:
--O, sir. --O, sir.
--Well, let me see if you can post a letter, Father Conmee said. --Well, let me see if you can post a letter, Father Conmee said.
Master Brunny Lynam ran across the road and put Father Conmee's Master Brunny Lynam ran across the road and put Father Conmee's
letter to father provincial into the mouth of the bright red letterbox. letter to father provincial into the mouth of the bright red letterbox.
Father Conmee smiled and nodded and smiled and walked along Mountjoy Father Conmee smiled and nodded and smiled and walked along Mountjoy
square east. square east.
Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c, in silk hat, slate Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c, in silk hat, slate
frockcoat with silk facings, white kerchief tie, tight lavender trousers, frockcoat with silk facings, white kerchief tie, tight lavender trousers,
canary gloves and pointed patent boots, walking with grave deportment canary gloves and pointed patent boots, walking with grave deportment
most respectfully took the curbstone as he passed lady Maxwell at the most respectfully took the curbstone as he passed lady Maxwell at the
corner of Dignam's court. corner of Dignam's court.
Was that not Mrs M'Guinness? Was that not Mrs M'Guinness?
Mrs M'Guinness, stately, silverhaired, bowed to Father Conmee from Mrs M'Guinness, stately, silverhaired, bowed to Father Conmee from
the farther footpath along which she sailed. And Father Conmee smiled and the farther footpath along which she sailed. And Father Conmee smiled and
saluted. How did she do? saluted. How did she do?
A fine carriage she had. Like Mary, queen of Scots, something. And to A fine carriage she had. Like Mary, queen of Scots, something. And to
think that she was a pawnbroker! Well, now! Such a ... what should he think that she was a pawnbroker! Well, now! Such a ... what should he
say? ... such a queenly mien. say? ... such a queenly mien.
Father Conmee walked down Great Charles street and glanced at the Father Conmee walked down Great Charles street and glanced at the
shutup free church on his left. The reverend T. R. Greene B.A. will (D.V.) shutup free church on his left. The reverend T. R. Greene B.A. will (D.V.)
speak. The incumbent they called him. He felt it incumbent on him to say a speak. The incumbent they called him. He felt it incumbent on him to say a
few words. But one should be charitable. Invincible ignorance. They acted few words. But one should be charitable. Invincible ignorance. They acted
according to their lights. according to their lights.
Father Conmee turned the corner and walked along the North Father Conmee turned the corner and walked along the North
Circular road. It was a wonder that there was not a tramline in such an Circular road. It was a wonder that there was not a tramline in such an
important thoroughfare. Surely, there ought to be. important thoroughfare. Surely, there ought to be.
A band of satchelled schoolboys crossed from Richmond street. All A band of satchelled schoolboys crossed from Richmond street. All
raised untidy caps. Father Conmee greeted them more than once benignly. raised untidy caps. Father Conmee greeted them more than once benignly.
Christian brother boys. Christian brother boys.
Father Conmee smelt incense on his right hand as he walked. Saint Father Conmee smelt incense on his right hand as he walked. Saint
Joseph's church, Portland row. For aged and virtuous females. Father Joseph's church, Portland row. For aged and virtuous females. Father
Conmee raised his hat to the Blessed Sacrament. Virtuous: but occasionally Conmee raised his hat to the Blessed Sacrament. Virtuous: but occasionally
they were also badtempered. they were also badtempered.
Near Aldborough house Father Conmee thought of that spendthrift Near Aldborough house Father Conmee thought of that spendthrift
nobleman. And now it was an office or something. nobleman. And now it was an office or something.
Father Conmee began to walk along the North Strand road and was Father Conmee began to walk along the North Strand road and was
saluted by Mr William Gallagher who stood in the doorway of his shop. saluted by Mr William Gallagher who stood in the doorway of his shop.
Father Conmee saluted Mr William Gallagher and perceived the odours Father Conmee saluted Mr William Gallagher and perceived the odours
that came from baconflitches and ample cools of butter. He passed that came from baconflitches and ample cools of butter. He passed
Grogan's the Tobacconist against which newsboards leaned and told of a Grogan's the Tobacconist against which newsboards leaned and told of a
dreadful catastrophe in New York. In America those things were dreadful catastrophe in New York. In America those things were
continually happening. Unfortunate people to die like that, unprepared. continually happening. Unfortunate people to die like that, unprepared.
Still, an act of perfect contrition. Still, an act of perfect contrition.
Father Conmee went by Daniel Bergin's publichouse against the Father Conmee went by Daniel Bergin's publichouse against the
window of which two unlabouring men lounged. They saluted him and window of which two unlabouring men lounged. They saluted him and
were saluted. were saluted.
Father Conmee passed H. J. O'Neill's funeral establishment where Father Conmee passed H. J. O'Neill's funeral establishment where
Corny Kelleher totted figures in the daybook while he chewed a blade of Corny Kelleher totted figures in the daybook while he chewed a blade of
hay. A constable on his beat saluted Father Conmee and Father Conmee hay. A constable on his beat saluted Father Conmee and Father Conmee
saluted the constable. In Youkstetter's, the porkbutcher's, Father Conmee saluted the constable. In Youkstetter's, the porkbutcher's, Father Conmee
observed pig's puddings, white and black and red, lie neatly curled in observed pig's puddings, white and black and red, lie neatly curled in
tubes. tubes.
Moored under the trees of Charleville Mall Father Conmee saw a Moored under the trees of Charleville Mall Father Conmee saw a
turfbarge, a towhorse with pendent head, a bargeman with a hat of dirty turfbarge, a towhorse with pendent head, a bargeman with a hat of dirty
straw seated amidships, smoking and staring at a branch of poplar above straw seated amidships, smoking and staring at a branch of poplar above
him. It was idyllic: and Father Conmee reflected on the providence of the him. It was idyllic: and Father Conmee reflected on the providence of the
Creator who had made turf to be in bogs whence men might dig it out and Creator who had made turf to be in bogs whence men might dig it out and
bring it to town and hamlet to make fires in the houses of poor people. bring it to town and hamlet to make fires in the houses of poor people.
On Newcomen bridge the very reverend John Conmee S.J. of saint On Newcomen bridge the very reverend John Conmee S.J. of saint
Francis Xavier's church, upper Gardiner street, stepped on to an outward Francis Xavier's church, upper Gardiner street, stepped on to an outward
bound tram. bound tram.
Off an inward bound tram stepped the reverend Nicholas Dudley Off an inward bound tram stepped the reverend Nicholas Dudley
C. C. of saint Agatha's church, north William street, on to Newcomen C. C. of saint Agatha's church, north William street, on to Newcomen
bridge. bridge.
At Newcomen bridge Father Conmee stepped into an outward bound At Newcomen bridge Father Conmee stepped into an outward bound
tram for he disliked to traverse on foot the dingy way past Mud Island. tram for he disliked to traverse on foot the dingy way past Mud Island.
Father Conmee sat in a corner of the tramcar, a blue ticket tucked Father Conmee sat in a corner of the tramcar, a blue ticket tucked
with care in the eye of one plump kid glove, while four shillings, a with care in the eye of one plump kid glove, while four shillings, a
sixpence and five pennies chuted from his other plump glovepalm into his sixpence and five pennies chuted from his other plump glovepalm into his
purse. Passing the ivy church he reflected that the ticket inspector purse. Passing the ivy church he reflected that the ticket inspector
usually made his visit when one had carelessly thrown away the ticket. usually made his visit when one had carelessly thrown away the ticket.
The solemnity of the occupants of the car seemed to Father Conmee The solemnity of the occupants of the car seemed to Father Conmee
excessive for a journey so short and cheap. Father Conmee liked cheerful excessive for a journey so short and cheap. Father Conmee liked cheerful
decorum. decorum.
It was a peaceful day. The gentleman with the glasses opposite Father It was a peaceful day. The gentleman with the glasses opposite Father
Conmee had finished explaining and looked down. His wife, Father Conmee had finished explaining and looked down. His wife, Father
Conmee supposed. A tiny yawn opened the mouth of the wife of the gentleman Conmee supposed. A tiny yawn opened the mouth of the wife of the gentleman
with the glasses. She raised her small gloved fist, yawned ever so gently, with the glasses. She raised her small gloved fist, yawned ever so gently,
tiptapping  her small gloved fist on her opening mouth and smiled tinily, tiptapping  her small gloved fist on her opening mouth and smiled tinily,
sweetly. sweetly.
Father Conmee perceived her perfume in the car. He perceived also Father Conmee perceived her perfume in the car. He perceived also
that the awkward man at the other side of her was sitting on the edge of that the awkward man at the other side of her was sitting on the edge of
the seat. the seat.
Father Conmee at the altarrails placed the host with difficulty in the Father Conmee at the altarrails placed the host with difficulty in the
mouth of the awkward old man who had the shaky head. mouth of the awkward old man who had the shaky head.
At Annesley bridge the tram halted and, when it was about to go, an At Annesley bridge the tram halted and, when it was about to go, an
old woman rose suddenly from her place to alight. The conductor pulled old woman rose suddenly from her place to alight. The conductor pulled
the bellstrap to stay the car for her. She passed out with her basket and the bellstrap to stay the car for her. She passed out with her basket and
a marketnet: and Father Conmee saw the conductor help her and net and a marketnet: and Father Conmee saw the conductor help her and net and
basket down: and Father Conmee thought that, as she had nearly passed basket down: and Father Conmee thought that, as she had nearly passed
the end of the penny fare, she was one of those good souls who had always the end of the penny fare, she was one of those good souls who had always
to be told twice BLESS YOU, MY CHILD, that they have been absolved, PRAY to be told twice BLESS YOU, MY CHILD, that they have been absolved, PRAY
FOR ME. But they had so many worries in life, so many cares, poor FOR ME. But they had so many worries in life, so many cares, poor
creatures. creatures.
From the hoardings Mr Eugene Stratton grimaced with thick niggerlips at From the hoardings Mr Eugene Stratton grimaced with thick niggerlips at
Father Conmee. Father Conmee.
Father Conmee thought of the souls of black and brown and yellow Father Conmee thought of the souls of black and brown and yellow
men and of his sermon on saint Peter Claver S.J. and the African mission men and of his sermon on saint Peter Claver S.J. and the African mission
and of the propagation of the faith and of the millions of black and brown and of the propagation of the faith and of the millions of black and brown
and yellow souls that had not received the baptism of water when their last and yellow souls that had not received the baptism of water when their last
hour came like a thief in the night. That book by the Belgian jesuit, LE hour came like a thief in the night. That book by the Belgian jesuit, LE
NOMBRE DES ELUS, seemed to Father Conmee a reasonable plea. Those were NOMBRE DES ELUS, seemed to Father Conmee a reasonable plea. Those were
millions of human souls created by God in His Own likeness to whom the millions of human souls created by God in His Own likeness to whom the
faith had not (D.V.) been brought. But they were God's souls, created by faith had not (D.V.) been brought. But they were God's souls, created by
God. It seemed to Father Conmee a pity that they should all be lost, a God. It seemed to Father Conmee a pity that they should all be lost, a
waste, if one might say. waste, if one might say.
At the Howth road stop Father Conmee alighted, was saluted by the At the Howth road stop Father Conmee alighted, was saluted by the
conductor and saluted in his turn. conductor and saluted in his turn.
The Malahide road was quiet. It pleased Father Conmee, road and The Malahide road was quiet. It pleased Father Conmee, road and
name. The joybells were ringing in gay Malahide. Lord Talbot de Malahide, name. The joybells were ringing in gay Malahide. Lord Talbot de Malahide,
immediate hereditary lord admiral of Malahide and the seas adjoining. immediate hereditary lord admiral of Malahide and the seas adjoining.
Then came the call to arms and she was maid, wife and widow in one day. Then came the call to arms and she was maid, wife and widow in one day.
Those were old worldish days, loyal times in joyous townlands, old times Those were old worldish days, loyal times in joyous townlands, old times
in the barony. in the barony.
Father Conmee, walking, thought of his little book OLD TIMES IN THE Father Conmee, walking, thought of his little book OLD TIMES IN THE
BARONY and of the book that might be written about jesuit houses and of BARONY and of the book that might be written about jesuit houses and of
Mary Rochfort, daughter of lord Molesworth, first countess of Belvedere. Mary Rochfort, daughter of lord Molesworth, first countess of Belvedere.
A listless lady, no more young, walked alone the shore of lough A listless lady, no more young, walked alone the shore of lough
Ennel, Mary, first countess of Belvedere, listlessly walking in the Ennel, Mary, first countess of Belvedere, listlessly walking in the
evening, not startled when an otter plunged. Who could know the truth? evening, not startled when an otter plunged. Who could know the truth?
Not the jealous lord Belvedere and not her confessor if she had not Not the jealous lord Belvedere and not her confessor if she had not
committed adultery fully, EIACULATIO SEMINIS INTER VAS NATURALE MULIERIS, committed adultery fully, EIACULATIO SEMINIS INTER VAS NATURALE MULIERIS,
with her husband's brother? She would half confess if she had not all with her husband's brother? She would half confess if she had not all
sinned as women did. Only God knew and she and he, her husband's brother. sinned as women did. Only God knew and she and he, her husband's brother.
Father Conmee thought of that tyrannous incontinence, needed Father Conmee thought of that tyrannous incontinence, needed
however for man's race on earth, and of the ways of God which were not however for man's race on earth, and of the ways of God which were not
our ways. our ways.
Don John Conmee walked and moved in times of yore. He was Don John Conmee walked and moved in times of yore. He was
humane and honoured there. He bore in mind secrets confessed and he humane and honoured there. He bore in mind secrets confessed and he
smiled at smiling noble faces in a beeswaxed drawingroom, ceiled with full smiled at smiling noble faces in a beeswaxed drawingroom, ceiled with full
fruit clusters. And the hands of a bride and of a bridegroom, noble to fruit clusters. And the hands of a bride and of a bridegroom, noble to
noble, were impalmed by Don John Conmee. noble, were impalmed by Don John Conmee.
It was a charming day. It was a charming day.
The lychgate of a field showed Father Conmee breadths of cabbages, The lychgate of a field showed Father Conmee breadths of cabbages,
curtseying to him with ample underleaves. The sky showed him a flock of curtseying to him with ample underleaves. The sky showed him a flock of
small white clouds going slowly down the wind. MOUTONNER, the French small white clouds going slowly down the wind. MOUTONNER, the French
said. A just and homely word. said. A just and homely word.
Father Conmee, reading his office, watched a flock of muttoning Father Conmee, reading his office, watched a flock of muttoning
clouds over Rathcoffey. His thinsocked ankles were tickled by the stubble clouds over Rathcoffey. His thinsocked ankles were tickled by the stubble
of Clongowes field. He walked there, reading in the evening, and heard the of Clongowes field. He walked there, reading in the evening, and heard the
cries of the boys' lines at their play, young cries in the quiet evening. cries of the boys' lines at their play, young cries in the quiet evening.
He was their rector: his reign was mild. He was their rector: his reign was mild.
Father Conmee drew off his gloves and took his rededged breviary out. Father Conmee drew off his gloves and took his rededged breviary out.
An ivory bookmark told him the page. An ivory bookmark told him the page.
Nones. He should have read that before lunch. But lady Maxwell had come. Nones. He should have read that before lunch. But lady Maxwell had come.
Father Conmee read in secret PATER and AVE and crossed his breast. Father Conmee read in secret PATER and AVE and crossed his breast.
DEUS IN ADIUTORIUM. DEUS IN ADIUTORIUM.
He walked calmly and read mutely the nones, walking and reading till He walked calmly and read mutely the nones, walking and reading till
he came to RES in BEATI IMMACULATI: PRINCIPIUM VERBORUM TUORUM VERITAS: he came to RES in BEATI IMMACULATI: PRINCIPIUM VERBORUM TUORUM VERITAS:
IN ETERNUM OMNIA INDICIA IUSTITIAE TUAE. IN ETERNUM OMNIA INDICIA IUSTITIAE TUAE.
A flushed young man came from a gap of a hedge and after him came A flushed young man came from a gap of a hedge and after him came
a young woman with wild nodding daisies in her hand. The young man a young woman with wild nodding daisies in her hand. The young man
raised his cap abruptly: the young woman abruptly bent and with slow care raised his cap abruptly: the young woman abruptly bent and with slow care
detached from her light skirt a clinging twig. detached from her light skirt a clinging twig.
Father Conmee blessed both gravely and turned a thin page of his Father Conmee blessed both gravely and turned a thin page of his
breviary. SIN: PRINCIPES PERSECUTI SUNT ME GRATIS: ET A VERBIS TUIS breviary. SIN: PRINCIPES PERSECUTI SUNT ME GRATIS: ET A VERBIS TUIS
FORMIDAVIT COR MEUM. FORMIDAVIT COR MEUM.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
Corny Kelleher closed his long daybook and glanced with his Corny Kelleher closed his long daybook and glanced with his
drooping eye at a pine coffinlid sentried in a corner. He pulled himself drooping eye at a pine coffinlid sentried in a corner. He pulled himself
erect, went to it and, spinning it on its axle, viewed its shape and brass erect, went to it and, spinning it on its axle, viewed its shape and brass
furnishings. Chewing his blade of hay he laid the coffinlid by and came to furnishings. Chewing his blade of hay he laid the coffinlid by and came to
the doorway. There he tilted his hatbrim to give shade to his eyes and the doorway. There he tilted his hatbrim to give shade to his eyes and
leaned against the doorcase, looking idly out. leaned against the doorcase, looking idly out.
Father John Conmee stepped into the Dollymount tram on Father John Conmee stepped into the Dollymount tram on
Newcomen bridge. Newcomen bridge.
Corny Kelleher locked his largefooted boots and gazed, his hat Corny Kelleher locked his largefooted boots and gazed, his hat
downtilted, chewing his blade of hay. downtilted, chewing his blade of hay.
Constable 57C, on his beat, stood to pass the time of day. Constable 57C, on his beat, stood to pass the time of day.
--That's a fine day, Mr Kelleher. --That's a fine day, Mr Kelleher.
--Ay, Corny Kelleher said. --Ay, Corny Kelleher said.
--It's very close, the constable said. --It's very close, the constable said.
Corny Kelleher sped a silent jet of hayjuice arching from his mouth Corny Kelleher sped a silent jet of hayjuice arching from his mouth
while a generous white arm from a window in Eccles street flung forth a while a generous white arm from a window in Eccles street flung forth a
coin. coin.
--What's the best news? he asked. --What's the best news? he asked.
--I seen that particular party last evening, the constable said with bated --I seen that particular party last evening, the constable said with bated
breath. breath.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
A onelegged sailor crutched himself round MacConnell's corner, A onelegged sailor crutched himself round MacConnell's corner,
skirting Rabaiotti's icecream car, and jerked himself up Eccles street. skirting Rabaiotti's icecream car, and jerked himself up Eccles street.
Towards Larry O'Rourke, in shirtsleeves in his doorway, he growled Towards Larry O'Rourke, in shirtsleeves in his doorway, he growled
unamiably: unamiably:
--FOR ENGLAND ... --FOR ENGLAND ...
He swung himself violently forward past Katey and Boody Dedalus, He swung himself violently forward past Katey and Boody Dedalus,
halted and growled: halted and growled:
--HOME AND BEAUTY. --HOME AND BEAUTY.
J. J. O'Molloy's white careworn face was told that Mr Lambert was J. J. O'Molloy's white careworn face was told that Mr Lambert was
in the warehouse with a visitor. in the warehouse with a visitor.
A stout lady stopped, took a copper coin from her purse and dropped A stout lady stopped, took a copper coin from her purse and dropped
it into the cap held out to her. The sailor grumbled thanks, glanced it into the cap held out to her. The sailor grumbled thanks, glanced
sourly at the unheeding windows, sank his head and swung himself forward sourly at the unheeding windows, sank his head and swung himself forward
four strides. four strides.
He halted and growled angrily: He halted and growled angrily:
--FOR ENGLAND ... --FOR ENGLAND ...
Two barefoot urchins, sucking long liquorice laces, halted near him, Two barefoot urchins, sucking long liquorice laces, halted near him,
gaping at his stump with their yellowslobbered mouths. gaping at his stump with their yellowslobbered mouths.
He swung himself forward in vigorous jerks, halted, lifted his head He swung himself forward in vigorous jerks, halted, lifted his head
towards a window and bayed deeply: towards a window and bayed deeply:
--HOME AND BEAUTY. --HOME AND BEAUTY.
The gay sweet chirping whistling within went on a bar or two, ceased. The gay sweet chirping whistling within went on a bar or two, ceased.
The blind of the window was drawn aside. A card UNFURNISHED APARTMENTS The blind of the window was drawn aside. A card UNFURNISHED APARTMENTS
slipped from the sash and fell. A plump bare generous arm shone, was seen, slipped from the sash and fell. A plump bare generous arm shone, was seen,
held forth from a white petticoatbodice and taut shiftstraps. A woman's held forth from a white petticoatbodice and taut shiftstraps. A woman's
hand flung forth a coin over the area railings. It fell on the path. hand flung forth a coin over the area railings. It fell on the path.
One of the urchins ran to it, picked it up and dropped it into the One of the urchins ran to it, picked it up and dropped it into the
minstrel's cap, saying: minstrel's cap, saying:
--There, sir. --There, sir.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
Katey and Boody Dedalus shoved in the door of the closesteaming Katey and Boody Dedalus shoved in the door of the closesteaming
kitchen. kitchen.
--Did you put in the books? Boody asked. --Did you put in the books? Boody asked.
Maggy at the range rammed down a greyish mass beneath bubbling Maggy at the range rammed down a greyish mass beneath bubbling
suds twice with her potstick and wiped her brow. suds twice with her potstick and wiped her brow.
--They wouldn't give anything on them, she said. --They wouldn't give anything on them, she said.
Father Conmee walked through Clongowes fields, his thinsocked Father Conmee walked through Clongowes fields, his thinsocked
ankles tickled by stubble. ankles tickled by stubble.
--Where did you try? Boody asked. --Where did you try? Boody asked.
--M'Guinness's. --M'Guinness's.
Boody stamped her foot and threw her satchel on the table. Boody stamped her foot and threw her satchel on the table.
--Bad cess to her big face! she cried. --Bad cess to her big face! she cried.
Katey went to the range and peered with squinting eyes. Katey went to the range and peered with squinting eyes.
--What's in the pot? she asked. --What's in the pot? she asked.
--Shirts, Maggy said. --Shirts, Maggy said.
Boody cried angrily: Boody cried angrily:
--Crickey, is there nothing for us to eat? --Crickey, is there nothing for us to eat?
Katey, lifting the kettlelid in a pad of her stained skirt, asked: Katey, lifting the kettlelid in a pad of her stained skirt, asked:
--And what's in this? --And what's in this?
A heavy fume gushed in answer. A heavy fume gushed in answer.
--Peasoup, Maggy said. --Peasoup, Maggy said.
--Where did you get it? Katey asked. --Where did you get it? Katey asked.
--Sister Mary Patrick, Maggy said. --Sister Mary Patrick, Maggy said.
The lacquey rang his bell. The lacquey rang his bell.
--Barang! --Barang!
Boody sat down at the table and said hungrily: Boody sat down at the table and said hungrily:
--Give us it here. --Give us it here.
Maggy poured yellow thick soup from the kettle into a bowl. Katey, Maggy poured yellow thick soup from the kettle into a bowl. Katey,
sitting opposite Boody, said quietly, as her fingertip lifted to her mouth sitting opposite Boody, said quietly, as her fingertip lifted to her mouth
random crumbs: random crumbs:
--A good job we have that much. Where's Dilly? --A good job we have that much. Where's Dilly?
--Gone to meet father, Maggy said. --Gone to meet father, Maggy said.
Boody, breaking big chunks of bread into the yellow soup, added: Boody, breaking big chunks of bread into the yellow soup, added:
--Our father who art not in heaven. --Our father who art not in heaven.
Maggy, pouring yellow soup in Katey's bowl, exclaimed: Maggy, pouring yellow soup in Katey's bowl, exclaimed:
--Boody! For shame! --Boody! For shame!
A skiff, a crumpled throwaway, Elijah is coming, rode lightly down A skiff, a crumpled throwaway, Elijah is coming, rode lightly down
the Liffey, under Loopline bridge, shooting the rapids where water chafed the Liffey, under Loopline bridge, shooting the rapids where water chafed
around the bridgepiers, sailing eastward past hulls and anchorchains, around the bridgepiers, sailing eastward past hulls and anchorchains,
between the Customhouse old dock and George's quay. between the Customhouse old dock and George's quay.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
The blond girl in Thornton's bedded the wicker basket with rustling The blond girl in Thornton's bedded the wicker basket with rustling
fibre. Blazes Boylan handed her the bottle swathed in pink tissue paper fibre. Blazes Boylan handed her the bottle swathed in pink tissue paper
and a small jar. and a small jar.
--Put these in first, will you? he said. --Put these in first, will you? he said.
--Yes, sir, the blond girl said. And the fruit on top. --Yes, sir, the blond girl said. And the fruit on top.
--That'll do, game ball, Blazes Boylan said. --That'll do, game ball, Blazes Boylan said.
She bestowed fat pears neatly, head by tail, and among them ripe She bestowed fat pears neatly, head by tail, and among them ripe
shamefaced peaches. shamefaced peaches.
Blazes Boylan walked here and there in new tan shoes about the Blazes Boylan walked here and there in new tan shoes about the
fruitsmelling shop, lifting fruits, young juicy crinkled and plump red fruitsmelling shop, lifting fruits, young juicy crinkled and plump red
tomatoes, sniffing smells. tomatoes, sniffing smells.
H. E. L. Y.'S filed before him, tallwhitehatted, past Tangier lane, H. E. L. Y.'S filed before him, tallwhitehatted, past Tangier lane,
plodding towards their goal. plodding towards their goal.
He turned suddenly from a chip of strawberries, drew a gold watch He turned suddenly from a chip of strawberries, drew a gold watch
from his fob and held it at its chain's length. from his fob and held it at its chain's length.
--Can you send them by tram? Now? --Can you send them by tram? Now?
A darkbacked figure under Merchants' arch scanned books on the A darkbacked figure under Merchants' arch scanned books on the
hawker's cart. hawker's cart.
--Certainly, sir. Is it in the city? --Certainly, sir. Is it in the city?
--O, yes, Blazes Boylan said. Ten minutes. --O, yes, Blazes Boylan said. Ten minutes.
The blond girl handed him a docket and pencil. The blond girl handed him a docket and pencil.
--Will you write the address, sir? --Will you write the address, sir?
Blazes Boylan at the counter wrote and pushed the docket to her. Blazes Boylan at the counter wrote and pushed the docket to her.
--Send it at once, will you? he said. It's for an invalid. --Send it at once, will you? he said. It's for an invalid.
--Yes, sir. I will, sir. --Yes, sir. I will, sir.
Blazes Boylan rattled merry money in his trousers' pocket. Blazes Boylan rattled merry money in his trousers' pocket.
--What's the damage? he asked. --What's the damage? he asked.
The blond girl's slim fingers reckoned the fruits. The blond girl's slim fingers reckoned the fruits.
Blazes Boylan looked into the cut of her blouse. A young pullet. He Blazes Boylan looked into the cut of her blouse. A young pullet. He
took a red carnation from the tall stemglass. took a red carnation from the tall stemglass.
--This for me? he asked gallantly. --This for me? he asked gallantly.
The blond girl glanced sideways at him, got up regardless, with his tie The blond girl glanced sideways at him, got up regardless, with his tie
a bit crooked, blushing. a bit crooked, blushing.
--Yes, sir, she said. --Yes, sir, she said.
Bending archly she reckoned again fat pears and blushing peaches. Bending archly she reckoned again fat pears and blushing peaches.
Blazes Boylan looked in her blouse with more favour, the stalk of the Blazes Boylan looked in her blouse with more favour, the stalk of the
red flower between his smiling teeth. red flower between his smiling teeth.
--May I say a word to your telephone, missy? he asked roguishly. --May I say a word to your telephone, missy? he asked roguishly.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
--MA! Almidano Artifoni said. --MA! Almidano Artifoni said.
He gazed over Stephen's shoulder at Goldsmith's knobby poll. He gazed over Stephen's shoulder at Goldsmith's knobby poll.
Two carfuls of tourists passed slowly, their women sitting fore, Two carfuls of tourists passed slowly, their women sitting fore,
gripping the handrests. Palefaces. Men's arms frankly round their stunted gripping the handrests. Palefaces. Men's arms frankly round their stunted
forms. They looked from Trinity to the blind columned porch of the bank forms. They looked from Trinity to the blind columned porch of the bank
of Ireland where pigeons roocoocooed. of Ireland where pigeons roocoocooed.
--ANCH'IO HO AVUTO DI QUESTE IDEE, Almidano Artifoni said, QUAND' ERO --ANCH'IO HO AVUTO DI QUESTE IDEE, Almidano Artifoni said, QUAND' ERO
GIOVINE COME LEI. EPPOI MI SONO CONVINTO CHE IL MONDO E UNA BESTIA. GIOVINE COME LEI. EPPOI MI SONO CONVINTO CHE IL MONDO E UNA BESTIA.
PECCATO. PERCHE LA SUA VOCE ... SAREBBE UN CESPITE DI RENDITA, VIA. PECCATO. PERCHE LA SUA VOCE ... SAREBBE UN CESPITE DI RENDITA, VIA.
INVECE, LEI SI SACRIFICA. INVECE, LEI SI SACRIFICA.
--SACRIFIZIO INCRUENTO, Stephen said smiling, swaying his ashplant in slow --SACRIFIZIO INCRUENTO, Stephen said smiling, swaying his ashplant in slow
swingswong from its midpoint, lightly. swingswong from its midpoint, lightly.
--SPERIAMO, the round mustachioed face said pleasantly. MA, DIA RETTA A --SPERIAMO, the round mustachioed face said pleasantly. MA, DIA RETTA A
ME. CI RIFLETTA. ME. CI RIFLETTA.
By the stern stone hand of Grattan, bidding halt, an Inchicore tram By the stern stone hand of Grattan, bidding halt, an Inchicore tram
unloaded straggling Highland soldiers of a band. unloaded straggling Highland soldiers of a band.
--CI RIFLETTERO, Stephen said, glancing down the solid trouserleg. --CI RIFLETTERO, Stephen said, glancing down the solid trouserleg.
--MA, SUL SERIO, EH? Almidano Artifoni said. --MA, SUL SERIO, EH? Almidano Artifoni said.
His heavy hand took Stephen's firmly. Human eyes. They gazed His heavy hand took Stephen's firmly. Human eyes. They gazed
curiously an instant and turned quickly towards a Dalkey tram. curiously an instant and turned quickly towards a Dalkey tram.
--ECCOLO, Almidano Artifoni said in friendly haste. VENGA A TROVARMI E CI --ECCOLO, Almidano Artifoni said in friendly haste. VENGA A TROVARMI E CI
PENSI. ADDIO, CARO. PENSI. ADDIO, CARO.
--ARRIVEDERLA, MAESTRO, Stephen said, raising his hat when his hand was --ARRIVEDERLA, MAESTRO, Stephen said, raising his hat when his hand was
freed. E GRAZIE. freed. E GRAZIE.
--DI CHE? Almidano Artifoni said. SCUSI, EH? TANTE BELLE COSE! --DI CHE? Almidano Artifoni said. SCUSI, EH? TANTE BELLE COSE!
Almidano Artifoni, holding up a baton of rolled music as a signal, Almidano Artifoni, holding up a baton of rolled music as a signal,
trotted on stout trousers after the Dalkey tram. In vain he trotted, trotted on stout trousers after the Dalkey tram. In vain he trotted,
signalling in vain among the rout of barekneed gillies smuggling signalling in vain among the rout of barekneed gillies smuggling
implements of music through Trinity gates. implements of music through Trinity gates.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
Miss Dunne hid the Capel street library copy of THE WOMAN IN WHITE Miss Dunne hid the Capel street library copy of THE WOMAN IN WHITE
far back in her drawer and rolled a sheet of gaudy notepaper into her far back in her drawer and rolled a sheet of gaudy notepaper into her
typewriter. typewriter.
Too much mystery business in it. Is he in love with that one, Marion? Too much mystery business in it. Is he in love with that one, Marion?
Change it and get another by Mary Cecil Haye. Change it and get another by Mary Cecil Haye.
The disk shot down the groove, wobbled a while, ceased and ogled The disk shot down the groove, wobbled a while, ceased and ogled
them: six. them: six.
Miss Dunne clicked on the keyboard: Miss Dunne clicked on the keyboard:
--16 June 1904. --16 June 1904.
Five tallwhitehatted sandwichmen between Monypeny's corner and Five tallwhitehatted sandwichmen between Monypeny's corner and
the slab where Wolfe Tone's statue was not, eeled themselves turning the slab where Wolfe Tone's statue was not, eeled themselves turning
H. E. L. Y.'S and plodded back as they had come. H. E. L. Y.'S and plodded back as they had come.
Then she stared at the large poster of Marie Kendall, charming soubrette, Then she stared at the large poster of Marie Kendall, charming soubrette,
and, listlessly lolling, scribbled on the jotter sixteens and capital and, listlessly lolling, scribbled on the jotter sixteens and capital
esses. Mustard hair and dauby cheeks. She's not nicelooking, is she? The esses. Mustard hair and dauby cheeks. She's not nicelooking, is she? The
way she's holding up her bit of a skirt. Wonder will that fellow be at the way she's holding up her bit of a skirt. Wonder will that fellow be at the
band tonight. If I could get that dressmaker to make a concertina skirt band tonight. If I could get that dressmaker to make a concertina skirt
like Susy Nagle's. They kick out grand. Shannon and all the boatclub like Susy Nagle's. They kick out grand. Shannon and all the boatclub
swells never took his eyes off her. Hope to goodness he won't keep me here swells never took his eyes off her. Hope to goodness he won't keep me here
till seven. till seven.
The telephone rang rudely by her ear. The telephone rang rudely by her ear.
--Hello. Yes, sir. No, sir. Yes, sir. I'll ring them up after five. Only --Hello. Yes, sir. No, sir. Yes, sir. I'll ring them up after five. Only
those two, sir, for Belfast and Liverpool. All right, sir. Then I can go those two, sir, for Belfast and Liverpool. All right, sir. Then I can go
after six if you're not back. A quarter after. Yes, sir. Twentyseven and after six if you're not back. A quarter after. Yes, sir. Twentyseven and
six. I'll tell him. Yes: one, seven, six. six. I'll tell him. Yes: one, seven, six.
She scribbled three figures on an envelope. She scribbled three figures on an envelope.
--Mr Boylan! Hello! That gentleman from SPORT was in looking for you. --Mr Boylan! Hello! That gentleman from SPORT was in looking for you.
Mr Lenehan, yes. He said he'll be in the Ormond at four. No, sir. Yes, Mr Lenehan, yes. He said he'll be in the Ormond at four. No, sir. Yes,
sir. I'll ring them up after five. sir. I'll ring them up after five.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
Two pink faces turned in the flare of the tiny torch. Two pink faces turned in the flare of the tiny torch.
--Who's that? Ned Lambert asked. Is that Crotty? --Who's that? Ned Lambert asked. Is that Crotty?
--Ringabella and Crosshaven, a voice replied groping for foothold. --Ringabella and Crosshaven, a voice replied groping for foothold.
--Hello, Jack, is that yourself? Ned Lambert said, raising in salute his --Hello, Jack, is that yourself? Ned Lambert said, raising in salute his
pliant lath among the flickering arches. Come on. Mind your steps there. pliant lath among the flickering arches. Come on. Mind your steps there.
The vesta in the clergyman's uplifted hand consumed itself in a long soft The vesta in the clergyman's uplifted hand consumed itself in a long soft
flame and was let fall. At their feet its red speck died: and mouldy air flame and was let fall. At their feet its red speck died: and mouldy air
closed round them. closed round them.
--How interesting! a refined accent said in the gloom. --How interesting! a refined accent said in the gloom.
--Yes, sir, Ned Lambert said heartily. We are standing in the historic --Yes, sir, Ned Lambert said heartily. We are standing in the historic
council chamber of saint Mary's abbey where silken Thomas proclaimed council chamber of saint Mary's abbey where silken Thomas proclaimed
himself a rebel in 1534. This is the most historic spot in all Dublin. himself a rebel in 1534. This is the most historic spot in all Dublin.
O'Madden Burke is going to write something about it one of these days. The O'Madden Burke is going to write something about it one of these days. The
old bank of Ireland was over the way till the time of the union and the old bank of Ireland was over the way till the time of the union and the
original jews' temple was here too before they built their synagogue over original jews' temple was here too before they built their synagogue over
in Adelaide road. You were never here before, Jack, were you? in Adelaide road. You were never here before, Jack, were you?
--No, Ned. --No, Ned.
--He rode down through Dame walk, the refined accent said, if my --He rode down through Dame walk, the refined accent said, if my
memory serves me. The mansion of the Kildares was in Thomas court. memory serves me. The mansion of the Kildares was in Thomas court.
--That's right, Ned Lambert said. That's quite right, sir. --That's right, Ned Lambert said. That's quite right, sir.
--If you will be so kind then, the clergyman said, the next time to allow --If you will be so kind then, the clergyman said, the next time to allow
me perhaps ... me perhaps ...
--Certainly, Ned Lambert said. Bring the camera whenever you like. I'll --Certainly, Ned Lambert said. Bring the camera whenever you like. I'll
get those bags cleared away from the windows. You can take it from here or get those bags cleared away from the windows. You can take it from here or
from here. from here.
In the still faint light he moved about, tapping with his lath the piled In the still faint light he moved about, tapping with his lath the piled
seedbags and points of vantage on the floor. seedbags and points of vantage on the floor.
From a long face a beard and gaze hung on a chessboard. From a long face a beard and gaze hung on a chessboard.
--I'm deeply obliged, Mr Lambert, the clergyman said. I won't trespass on --I'm deeply obliged, Mr Lambert, the clergyman said. I won't trespass on
your valuable time ... your valuable time ...
--You're welcome, sir, Ned Lambert said. Drop in whenever you like. Next --You're welcome, sir, Ned Lambert said. Drop in whenever you like. Next
week, say. Can you see? week, say. Can you see?
--Yes, yes. Good afternoon, Mr Lambert. Very pleased to have met you. --Yes, yes. Good afternoon, Mr Lambert. Very pleased to have met you.
--Pleasure is mine, sir, Ned Lambert answered. --Pleasure is mine, sir, Ned Lambert answered.
He followed his guest to the outlet and then whirled his lath away He followed his guest to the outlet and then whirled his lath away
among the pillars. With J. J. O'Molloy he came forth slowly into Mary's among the pillars. With J. J. O'Molloy he came forth slowly into Mary's
abbey where draymen were loading floats with sacks of carob and palmnut abbey where draymen were loading floats with sacks of carob and palmnut
meal, O'Connor, Wexford. meal, O'Connor, Wexford.
He stood to read the card in his hand. He stood to read the card in his hand.
--The reverend Hugh C. Love, Rathcoffey. Present address: Saint --The reverend Hugh C. Love, Rathcoffey. Present address: Saint
Michael's, Sallins. Nice young chap he is. He's writing a book about the Michael's, Sallins. Nice young chap he is. He's writing a book about the
Fitzgeralds he told me. He's well up in history, faith. Fitzgeralds he told me. He's well up in history, faith.
The young woman with slow care detached from her light skirt a The young woman with slow care detached from her light skirt a
clinging twig. clinging twig.
--I thought you were at a new gunpowder plot, J. J. O'Molloy said. --I thought you were at a new gunpowder plot, J. J. O'Molloy said.
Ned Lambert cracked his fingers in the air. Ned Lambert cracked his fingers in the air.
--God! he cried. I forgot to tell him that one about the earl of Kildare --God! he cried. I forgot to tell him that one about the earl of Kildare
after he set fire to Cashel cathedral. You know that one? I'M BLOODY SORRY after he set fire to Cashel cathedral. You know that one? I'M BLOODY SORRY
I DID IT, says he, BUT I DECLARE TO GOD I THOUGHT THE ARCHBISHOP WAS I DID IT, says he, BUT I DECLARE TO GOD I THOUGHT THE ARCHBISHOP WAS
INSIDE. He mightn't like it, though. What? God, I'll tell him anyhow. INSIDE. He mightn't like it, though. What? God, I'll tell him anyhow.
That was the great earl, the Fitzgerald Mor. Hot members they were all of That was the great earl, the Fitzgerald Mor. Hot members they were all of
them, the Geraldines. them, the Geraldines.
The horses he passed started nervously under their slack harness. He The horses he passed started nervously under their slack harness. He
slapped a piebald haunch quivering near him and cried: slapped a piebald haunch quivering near him and cried:
--Woa, sonny! --Woa, sonny!
He turned to J. J. O'Molloy and asked: He turned to J. J. O'Molloy and asked:
--Well, Jack. What is it? What's the trouble? Wait awhile. Hold hard. --Well, Jack. What is it? What's the trouble? Wait awhile. Hold hard.
With gaping mouth and head far back he stood still and, after an With gaping mouth and head far back he stood still and, after an
instant, sneezed loudly. instant, sneezed loudly.
--Chow! he said. Blast you! --Chow! he said. Blast you!
--The dust from those sacks, J. J. O'Molloy said politely. --The dust from those sacks, J. J. O'Molloy said politely.
--No, Ned Lambert gasped, I caught a ... cold night before ... blast --No, Ned Lambert gasped, I caught a ... cold night before ... blast
your soul ... night before last ... and there was a hell of a lot of your soul ... night before last ... and there was a hell of a lot of
draught ... draught ...
He held his handkerchief ready for the coming ... He held his handkerchief ready for the coming ...
--I was ... Glasnevin this morning ... poor little ... what do you call --I was ... Glasnevin this morning ... poor little ... what do you call
him ... Chow! ... Mother of Moses! him ... Chow! ... Mother of Moses!
    * * * * *     * * * * *
Tom Rochford took the top disk from the pile he clasped against his Tom Rochford took the top disk from the pile he clasped against his
claret waistcoat. claret waistcoat.
--See? he said. Say it's turn six. In here, see. Turn Now On. --See? he said. Say it's turn six. In here, see. Turn Now On.
He slid it into the left slot for them. It shot down the groove, wobbled He slid it into the left slot for them. It shot down the groove, wobbled
a while, ceased, ogling them: six. a while, ceased, ogling them: six.
Lawyers of the past, haughty, pleading, beheld pass from the Lawyers of the past, haughty, pleading, beheld pass from the
consolidated taxing office to Nisi Prius court Richie Goulding carrying consolidated taxing office to Nisi Prius court Richie Goulding carrying
the costbag of Goulding, Collis and Ward and heard rustling from the the costbag of Goulding, Collis and Ward and heard rustling from the
admiralty division of king's bench to the court of appeal an elderly admiralty division of king's bench to the court of appeal an elderly
female with false teeth smiling incredulously and a black silk skirt of female with false teeth smiling incredulously and a black silk skirt of
great amplitude. great amplitude.
--See? he said. See now the last one I put in is over here: Turns Over. --See? he said. See now the last one I put in is over here: Turns Over.
The impact. Leverage, see? The impact. Leverage, see?
He showed them the rising column of disks on the right. He showed them the rising column of disks on the right.
--Smart idea, Nosey Flynn said, snuffling. So a fellow coming in late can --Smart idea, Nosey Flynn said, snuffling. So a fellow coming in late can
see what turn is on and what turns are over. see what turn is on and what turns are over.
--See? Tom Rochford said. --See? Tom Rochford said.
He slid in a disk for himself: and watched it shoot, wobble, ogle, stop: He slid in a disk for himself: and watched it shoot, wobble, ogle, stop:
four. Turn Now On. four. Turn Now On.
--I'll see him now in the Ormond, Lenehan said, and sound him. One good --I'll see him now in the Ormond, Lenehan said, and sound him. One good
turn deserves another. turn deserves another.
--Do, Tom Rochford said. Tell him I'm Boylan with impatience. --Do, Tom Rochford said. Tell him I'm Boylan with impatience.
--Goodnight, M'Coy said abruptly. When you two begin --Goodnight, M'Coy said abruptly. When you two begin
Nosey Flynn stooped towards the lever, snuffling at it. Nosey Flynn stooped towards the lever, snuffling at it.
--But how does it work here, Tommy? he asked. --But how does it work here, Tommy? he asked.
--Tooraloo, Lenehan said. See you later. --Tooraloo, Lenehan said. See you later.
He followed M'Coy out across the tiny square of Crampton court. He followed M'Coy out across the tiny square of Crampton court.
--He's a hero, he said simply. --He's a hero, he said simply.
--I know, M'Coy said. The drain, you mean. --I know, M'Coy said. The drain, you mean.
--Drain? Lenehan said. It was down a manhole. --Drain? Lenehan said. It was down a manhole.
They passed Dan Lowry's musichall where Marie Kendall, charming They passed Dan Lowry's musichall where Marie Kendall, charming
soubrette, smiled on them from a poster a dauby smile. soubrette, smiled on them from a poster a dauby smile.
Going down the path of Sycamore street beside the Empire musichall Going down the path of Sycamore street beside the Empire musichall
Lenehan showed M'Coy how the whole thing was. One of those manholes Lenehan showed M'Coy how the whole thing was. One of those manholes
like a bloody gaspipe and there was the poor devil stuck down in it, half like a bloody gaspipe and there was the poor devil stuck down in it, half
choked with sewer gas. Down went Tom Rochford anyhow, booky's vest choked with sewer gas. Down went Tom Rochford anyhow, booky's vest
and all, with the rope round him. And be damned but he got the rope round and all, with the rope round him. And be damned but he got the rope round
the poor devil and the two were hauled up. the poor devil and the two were hauled up.
--The act of a hero, he said. --The act of a hero, he said.
At the Dolphin they halted to allow the ambulance car to gallop past At the Dolphin they halted to allow the ambulance car to gallop past
them for Jervis street. them for Jervis street.
--This way, he said, walking to the right. I want to pop into Lynam's to --This way, he said, walking to the right. I want to pop into Lynam's to
see Sceptre's starting price. What's the time by your gold watch and see Sceptre's starting price. What's the time by your gold watch and
chain? chain?
M'Coy peered into Marcus Tertius Moses' sombre office, then at M'Coy peered into Marcus Tertius Moses' sombre office, then at
O'Neill's clock. O'Neill's clock.
--After three, he said. Who's riding her? --After three, he said. Who's riding her?
--O. Madden, Lenehan said. And a game filly she is. --O. Madden, Lenehan said. And a game filly she is.
While he waited in Temple bar M'Coy dodged a banana peel with While he waited in Temple bar M'Coy dodged a banana peel with
gentle pushes of his toe from the path to the gutter. Fellow might damn gentle pushes of his toe from the path to the gutter. Fellow might damn
easy get a nasty fall there coming along tight in the dark. easy get a nasty fall there coming along tight in the dark.
The gates of the drive opened wide to give egress to the viceregal The gates of the drive opened wide to give egress to the viceregal
cavalcade. cavalcade.
--Even money, Lenehan said returning. I knocked against Bantam Lyons in --Even money, Lenehan said returning. I knocked against Bantam Lyons in
there going to back a bloody horse someone gave him that hasn't an there going to back a bloody horse someone gave him that hasn't an
earthly. Through here. earthly. Through here.
They went up the steps and under Merchants' arch. A darkbacked They went up the steps and under Merchants' arch. A darkbacked
figure scanned books on the hawker's cart. figure scanned books on the hawker's cart.
--There he is, Lenehan said. --There he is, Lenehan said.
--Wonder what he's buying, M'Coy said, glancing behind. --Wonder what he's buying, M'Coy said, glancing behind.
--LEOPOLDO OR THE BLOOM IS ON THE RYE, Lenehan said. --LEOPOLDO OR THE BLOOM IS ON THE RYE, Lenehan said.
--He's dead nuts on sales, M'Coy said. I was with him one day and he --He's dead nuts on sales, M'Coy said. I was with him one day and he
bought a book from an old one in Liffey street for two bob. There were bought a book from an old one in Liffey street for two bob. There were
fine plates in it worth double the money, the stars and the moon and fine plates in it worth double the money, the stars and the moon and
comets with long tails. Astronomy it was about. comets with long tails. Astronomy it was about.
Lenehan laughed. Lenehan laughed.
--I'll tell you a damn good one about comets' tails, he said. Come over in --I'll tell you a damn good one about comets' tails, he said. Come over in
the sun. the sun.
They crossed to the metal bridge and went along Wellington quay by They crossed to the metal bridge and went along Wellington quay by
the riverwall. the riverwall.
Master Patrick Aloysius Dignam came out of Mangan's, late Master Patrick Aloysius Dignam came out of Mangan's, late
Fehrenbach's, carrying a pound and a half of porksteaks. Fehrenbach's, carrying a pound and a half of porksteaks.
--There was a long spread out at Glencree reformatory, Lenehan said --There was a long spread out at Glencree reformatory, Lenehan said
eagerly. The annual dinner, you know. Boiled shirt affair. The lord mayor eagerly. The annual dinner, you know. Boiled shirt affair. The lord mayor
was there, Val Dillon it was, and sir Charles Cameron and Dan Dawson was there, Val Dillon it was, and sir Charles Cameron and Dan Dawson
spoke and there was music. Bartell d'Arcy sang and Benjamin Dollard ... spoke and there was music. Bartell d'Arcy sang and Benjamin Dollard ...
--I know, M'Coy broke in. My missus sang there once. --I know, M'Coy broke in. My missus sang there once.
--Did she? Lenehan said. --Did she? Lenehan said.
A card UNFURNISHED APARTMENTS reappeared on the windowsash of A card UNFURNISHED APARTMENTS reappeared on the windowsash of
number 7 Eccles street. number 7 Eccles street.
He checked his tale a moment but broke out in a wheezy laugh. He checked his tale a moment but broke out in a wheezy laugh.
--But wait till I tell you, he said. Delahunt of Camden street had the --But wait till I tell you, he said. Delahunt of Camden street had the
catering and yours truly was chief bottlewasher. Bloom and the wife were catering and yours truly was chief bottlewasher. Bloom and the wife were
there. Lashings of stuff we put up: port wine and sherry and curacao to there. Lashings of stuff we put up: port wine and sherry and curacao to
which we did ample justice. Fast and furious it was. After liquids came which we did ample justice. Fast and furious it was. After liquids came
solids. Cold joints galore and mince pies ... solids. Cold joints galore and mince pies ...
--I know, M'Coy said. The year the missus was there ... --I know, M'Coy said. The year the missus was there ...
Lenehan linked his arm warmly. Lenehan linked his arm warmly.
--But wait till I tell you, he said. We had a midnight lunch too after all --But wait till I tell you, he said. We had a midnight lunch too after all
the jollification and when we sallied forth it was blue o'clock the the jollification and when we sallied forth it was blue o'clock the
morning after the night before. Coming home it was a gorgeous winter's morning after the night before. Coming home it was a gorgeous winter's
night on the Featherbed Mountain. Bloom and Chris Callinan were on one night on the Featherbed Mountain. Bloom and Chris Callinan were on one
side of the car and I was with the wife on the other. We started singing side of the car and I was with the wife on the other. We started singing
glees and duets: LO, THE EARLY BEAM OF MORNING. She was well primed with a glees and duets: LO, THE EARLY BEAM OF MORNING. She was well primed with a
good load of Delahunt's port under her bellyband. Every jolt the bloody good load of Delahunt's port under her bellyband. Every jolt the bloody
car gave I had her bumping up against me. Hell's delights! She has a fine car gave I had her bumping up against me. Hell's delights! She has a fine
pair, God bless her. Like that. pair, God bless her. Like that.
He held his caved hands a cubit from him, frowning: He held his caved hands a cubit from him, frowning:
--I was tucking the rug under her and settling her boa all the time. Know --I was tucking the rug under her and settling her boa all the time. Know
what I mean? what I mean?
His hands moulded ample curves of air. He shut his eyes tight in His hands moulded ample curves of air. He shut his eyes tight in
delight, his body shrinking, and blew a sweet chirp from his lips. delight, his body shrinking, and blew a sweet chirp from his lips.
--The lad stood to attention anyhow, he said with a sigh. She's a gamey --The lad stood to attention anyhow, he said with a sigh. She's a gamey
mare and no mistake. Bloom was pointing out all the stars and the comets mare and no mistake. Bloom was pointing out all the stars and the comets
in the heavens to Chris Callinan and the jarvey: the great bear and in the heavens to Chris Callinan and the jarvey: the great bear and
Hercules and the dragon, and the whole jingbang lot. But, by God, I was Hercules and the dragon, and the whole jingbang lot. But, by God, I was
lost, so to speak, in the milky way. He knows them all, faith. At last she lost, so to speak, in the milky way. He knows them all, faith. At last she
spotted a weeny weeshy one miles away. AND WHAT STAR IS THAT, POLDY? says spotted a weeny weeshy one miles away. AND WHAT STAR IS THAT, POLDY? says
she. By God, she had Bloom cornered. THAT ONE, IS IT? says Chris Callinan, she. By God, she had Bloom cornered. THAT ONE, IS IT? says Chris Callinan,
SURE THAT'S ONLY WHAT YOU MIGHT CALL A PINPRICK. By God, he wasn't far SURE THAT'S ONLY WHAT YOU MIGHT CALL A PINPRICK. By God, he wasn't far
wide of the mark. wide of the mark.
Lenehan stopped and leaned on the riverwall, panting with soft Lenehan stopped and leaned on the riverwall, panting with soft
laughter. laughter.
--I'm weak, he gasped. --I'm weak, he gasped.
M'Coy's white face smiled about it at instants and grew grave. M'Coy's white face smiled about it at instants and grew grave.
Lenehan walked on again. He lifted his yachtingcap and scratched his Lenehan walked on again. He lifted his yachtingcap and scratched his
hindhead rapidly. He glanced sideways in the sunlight at M'Coy. hindhead rapidly. He glanced sideways in the sunlight at M'Coy.
--He's a cultured allroundman, Bloom is, he said seriously. He's not one --He's a cultured allroundman, Bloom is, he said seriously. He's not one
of your common or garden ... you know ... There's a touch of the artist of your common or garden ... you know ... There's a touch of the artist
about old Bloom. about old Bloom.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
Mr Bloom turned over idly pages of THE AWFUL DISCLOSURES OF MARIA Mr Bloom turned over idly pages of THE AWFUL DISCLOSURES OF MARIA
MONK, then of Aristotle's MASTERPIECE. Crooked botched print. Plates: MONK, then of Aristotle's MASTERPIECE. Crooked botched print. Plates:
infants cuddled in a ball in bloodred wombs like livers of slaughtered infants cuddled in a ball in bloodred wombs like livers of slaughtered
cows. Lots of them like that at this moment all over the world. All cows. Lots of them like that at this moment all over the world. All
butting with their skulls to get out of it. Child born every minute butting with their skulls to get out of it. Child born every minute
somewhere. Mrs Purefoy. somewhere. Mrs Purefoy.
He laid both books aside and glanced at the third: TALES OF THE GHETTO He laid both books aside and glanced at the third: TALES OF THE GHETTO
by Leopold von Sacher Masoch. by Leopold von Sacher Masoch.
--That I had, he said, pushing it by. --That I had, he said, pushing it by.
The shopman let two volumes fall on the counter. The shopman let two volumes fall on the counter.
--Them are two good ones, he said. --Them are two good ones, he said.
Onions of his breath came across the counter out of his ruined Onions of his breath came across the counter out of his ruined
mouth. He bent to make a bundle of the other books, hugged them against mouth. He bent to make a bundle of the other books, hugged them against
his unbuttoned waistcoat and bore them off behind the dingy curtain. his unbuttoned waistcoat and bore them off behind the dingy curtain.
On O'Connell bridge many persons observed the grave deportment On O'Connell bridge many persons observed the grave deportment
and gay apparel of Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c. and gay apparel of Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c.
Mr Bloom, alone, looked at the titles. FAIR TYRANTS by James Lovebirch. Mr Bloom, alone, looked at the titles. FAIR TYRANTS by James Lovebirch.
Know the kind that is. Had it? Yes. Know the kind that is. Had it? Yes.
He opened it. Thought so. He opened it. Thought so.
A woman's voice behind the dingy curtain. Listen: the man. A woman's voice behind the dingy curtain. Listen: the man.
No: she wouldn't like that much. Got her it once. No: she wouldn't like that much. Got her it once.
He read the other title: SWEETS OF SIN. More in her line. Let us see. He read the other title: SWEETS OF SIN. More in her line. Let us see.
