to us by right. At this very moment, says he, putting up his fist, sold by to us by right. At this very moment, says he, putting up his fist, sold by
auction in Morocco like slaves or cattle. auction in Morocco like slaves or cattle.
--Are you talking about the new Jerusalem? says the citizen. --Are you talking about the new Jerusalem? says the citizen.
--I'm talking about injustice, says Bloom. --I'm talking about injustice, says Bloom.
--Right, says John Wyse. Stand up to it then with force like men. --Right, says John Wyse. Stand up to it then with force like men.
That's an almanac picture for you. Mark for a softnosed bullet. Old That's an almanac picture for you. Mark for a softnosed bullet. Old
lardyface standing up to the business end of a gun. Gob, he'd adorn a lardyface standing up to the business end of a gun. Gob, he'd adorn a
sweepingbrush, so he would, if he only had a nurse's apron on him. And sweepingbrush, so he would, if he only had a nurse's apron on him. And
then he collapses all of a sudden, twisting around all the opposite, as then he collapses all of a sudden, twisting around all the opposite, as
limp as a wet rag. limp as a wet rag.
--But it's no use, says he. Force, hatred, history, all that. That's not --But it's no use, says he. Force, hatred, history, all that. That's not
I warrant me. I warrant me.
--Then about! cried the traveller who had not spoken, a lusty trencherman --Then about! cried the traveller who had not spoken, a lusty trencherman
by his aspect. Hast aught to give us? by his aspect. Hast aught to give us?
be possible thing without they see it natheless they are so. And these be possible thing without they see it natheless they are so. And these
fishes lie in an oily water brought there from Portugal land because fishes lie in an oily water brought there from Portugal land because
of the fatness that therein is like to the juices of the olivepress. of the fatness that therein is like to the juices of the olivepress.
And also it was a marvel to see in that castle how by magic they make And also it was a marvel to see in that castle how by magic they make
The viceregal houseparty which included many wellknown ladies was The viceregal houseparty which included many wellknown ladies was
chaperoned by Their Excellencies to the most favourable positions on the chaperoned by Their Excellencies to the most favourable positions on the
grandstand while the picturesque foreign delegation known as the Friends grandstand while the picturesque foreign delegation known as the Friends
of the Emerald Isle was accommodated on a tribune directly opposite. of the Emerald Isle was accommodated on a tribune directly opposite.
The delegation, present in full force, consisted of Commendatore The delegation, present in full force, consisted of Commendatore
Bacibaci Beninobenone (the semiparalysed DOYEN of the party who had Bacibaci Beninobenone (the semiparalysed DOYEN of the party who had
to be assisted to his seat by the aid of a powerful steam crane), to be assisted to his seat by the aid of a powerful steam crane),
Monsieur Pierrepaul Petitepatant, the Grandjoker Vladinmire Monsieur Pierrepaul Petitepatant, the Grandjoker Vladinmire
Pokethankertscheff, the Archjoker Leopold Rudolph von Pokethankertscheff, the Archjoker Leopold Rudolph von
Schwanzenbad-Hodenthaler, Countess Marha Viraga Kisaszony Putrapesthi, Schwanzenbad-Hodenthaler, Countess Marha Viraga Kisaszony Putrapesthi,
Hiram Y. Bomboost, Count Athanatos Karamelopulos, Ali Baba Backsheesh Hiram Y. Bomboost, Count Athanatos Karamelopulos, Ali Baba Backsheesh
Rahat Lokum Effendi, Senor Hidalgo Caballero Don Pecadillo y Rahat Lokum Effendi, Senor Hidalgo Caballero Don Pecadillo y
Palabras y Paternoster de la Malora de la Malaria, Hokopoko Harakiri, Palabras y Paternoster de la Malora de la Malaria, Hokopoko Harakiri,
Hi Hung Chang, Olaf Kobberkeddelsen, Mynheer Trik van Trumps, Hi Hung Chang, Olaf Kobberkeddelsen, Mynheer Trik van Trumps,
Pan Poleaxe Paddyrisky, Goosepond Prhklstr Kratchinabritchisitch, Pan Poleaxe Paddyrisky, Goosepond Prhklstr Kratchinabritchisitch,
Borus Hupinkoff, Herr Hurhausdirektorpresident Hans Chuechli-Steuerli, Borus Hupinkoff, Herr Hurhausdirektorpresident Hans Chuechli-Steuerli,
Nationalgymnasiummuseumsanatoriumandsuspensoriumsordinaryprivatdocent- Nationalgymnasiummuseumsanatoriumandsuspensoriumsordinaryprivatdocent-
generalhistoryspecialprofessordoctor Kriegfried Ueberallgemein. generalhistoryspecialprofessordoctor Kriegfried Ueberallgemein.
All the delegates without exception expressed themselves in the All the delegates without exception expressed themselves in the
strongest possible heterogeneous terms concerning the nameless strongest possible heterogeneous terms concerning the nameless
barbarity which they had been called upon to witness. An animated barbarity which they had been called upon to witness. An animated
altercation (in which all took part) ensued among the F. O. T. E. I. altercation (in which all took part) ensued among the F. O. T. E. I.
as to whether the eighth or the ninth of March was the correct as to whether the eighth or the ninth of March was the correct
date of the birth of Ireland's patron saint. In the course of the date of the birth of Ireland's patron saint. In the course of the
argument cannonballs, scimitars, boomerangs, blunderbusses, stinkpots, argument cannonballs, scimitars, boomerangs, blunderbusses, stinkpots,
meatchoppers, umbrellas, catapults, knuckledusters, sandbags, lumps of pig meatchoppers, umbrellas, catapults, knuckledusters, sandbags, lumps of pig
iron were resorted to and blows were freely exchanged. The baby iron were resorted to and blows were freely exchanged. The baby
policeman, Constable MacFadden, summoned by special courier from policeman, Constable MacFadden, summoned by special courier from
Booterstown, quickly restored order and with lightning promptitude Booterstown, quickly restored order and with lightning promptitude
proposed the seventeenth of the month as a solution equally honourable for proposed the seventeenth of the month as a solution equally honourable for
both contending parties. The readywitted ninefooter's suggestion at once both contending parties. The readywitted ninefooter's suggestion at once
appealed to all and was unanimously accepted. Constable MacFadden was appealed to all and was unanimously accepted. Constable MacFadden was
heartily congratulated by all the F.O.T.E.I., several of whom were heartily congratulated by all the F.O.T.E.I., several of whom were
bleeding profusely. Commendatore Beninobenone having been extricated bleeding profusely. Commendatore Beninobenone having been extricated
from underneath the presidential armchair, it was explained by his legal from underneath the presidential armchair, it was explained by his legal
adviser Avvocato Pagamimi that the various articles secreted in his adviser Avvocato Pagamimi that the various articles secreted in his
thirtytwo pockets had been abstracted by him during the affray from the thirtytwo pockets had been abstracted by him during the affray from the
pockets of his junior colleagues in the hope of bringing them to their pockets of his junior colleagues in the hope of bringing them to their
senses. The objects (which included several hundred ladies' and senses. The objects (which included several hundred ladies' and
gentlemen's gold and silver watches) were promptly restored to their gentlemen's gold and silver watches) were promptly restored to their
rightful owners and general harmony reigned supreme. rightful owners and general harmony reigned supreme.
Quietly, unassumingly Rumbold stepped on to the scaffold in faultless Quietly, unassumingly Rumbold stepped on to the scaffold in faultless
morning dress and wearing his favourite flower, the GLADIOLUS CRUENTUS. morning dress and wearing his favourite flower, the GLADIOLUS CRUENTUS.
He announced his presence by that gentle Rumboldian cough which so He announced his presence by that gentle Rumboldian cough which so
many have tried (unsuccessfully) to imitate--short, painstaking yet withal many have tried (unsuccessfully) to imitate--short, painstaking yet withal
so characteristic of the man. The arrival of the worldrenowned headsman so characteristic of the man. The arrival of the worldrenowned headsman
was greeted by a roar of acclamation from the huge concourse, the was greeted by a roar of acclamation from the huge concourse, the
viceregal ladies waving their handkerchiefs in their excitement while the viceregal ladies waving their handkerchiefs in their excitement while the
even more excitable foreign delegates cheered vociferously in a medley of even more excitable foreign delegates cheered vociferously in a medley of
cries, HOCH, BANZAI, ELJEN, ZIVIO, CHINCHIN, POLLA KRONIA, HIPHIP, VIVE, cries, HOCH, BANZAI, ELJEN, ZIVIO, CHINCHIN, POLLA KRONIA, HIPHIP, VIVE,
ALLAH, amid which the ringing EVVIVA of the delegate of the land of song ALLAH, amid which the ringing EVVIVA of the delegate of the land of song
(a high double F recalling those piercingly lovely notes with which the (a high double F recalling those piercingly lovely notes with which the
eunuch Catalani beglamoured our greatgreatgrandmothers) was easily eunuch Catalani beglamoured our greatgreatgrandmothers) was easily
distinguishable. It was exactly seventeen o'clock. The signal for prayer distinguishable. It was exactly seventeen o'clock. The signal for prayer
was then promptly given by megaphone and in an instant all heads were was then promptly given by megaphone and in an instant all heads were
bared, the commendatore's patriarchal sombrero, which has been in the bared, the commendatore's patriarchal sombrero, which has been in the
possession of his family since the revolution of Rienzi, being removed by possession of his family since the revolution of Rienzi, being removed by
his medical adviser in attendance, Dr Pippi. The learned prelate who his medical adviser in attendance, Dr Pippi. The learned prelate who
administered the last comforts of holy religion to the hero martyr when administered the last comforts of holy religion to the hero martyr when
about to pay the death penalty knelt in a most christian spirit in a pool about to pay the death penalty knelt in a most christian spirit in a pool
of rainwater, his cassock above his hoary head, and offered up to the of rainwater, his cassock above his hoary head, and offered up to the
throne of grace fervent prayers of supplication. Hand by the block stood throne of grace fervent prayers of supplication. Hand by the block stood
the grim figure of the executioner, his visage being concealed in a the grim figure of the executioner, his visage being concealed in a
tengallon pot with two circular perforated apertures through which tengallon pot with two circular perforated apertures through which
his eyes glowered furiously. As he awaited the fatal signal he his eyes glowered furiously. As he awaited the fatal signal he
tested the edge of his horrible weapon by honing it upon his tested the edge of his horrible weapon by honing it upon his
brawny forearm or decapitated in rapid succession a flock of brawny forearm or decapitated in rapid succession a flock of
sheep which had been provided by the admirers of his fell but necessary sheep which had been provided by the admirers of his fell but necessary
office. On a handsome mahogany table near him were neatly arranged the office. On a handsome mahogany table near him were neatly arranged the
quartering knife, the various finely tempered disembowelling appliances quartering knife, the various finely tempered disembowelling appliances
(specially supplied by the worldfamous firm of cutlers, Messrs John Round (specially supplied by the worldfamous firm of cutlers, Messrs John Round
and Sons, Sheffield), a terra cotta saucepan for the reception of the and Sons, Sheffield), a terra cotta saucepan for the reception of the
duodenum, colon, blind intestine and appendix etc when successfully duodenum, colon, blind intestine and appendix etc when successfully
extracted and two commodious milkjugs destined to receive the most extracted and two commodious milkjugs destined to receive the most
precious blood of the most precious victim. The housesteward of the precious blood of the most precious victim. The housesteward of the
amalgamated cats' and dogs' home was in attendance to convey these amalgamated cats' and dogs' home was in attendance to convey these
vessels when replenished to that beneficent institution. Quite an vessels when replenished to that beneficent institution. Quite an
been mad especially Simon Dedalus son his father such a criticiser with been mad especially Simon Dedalus son his father such a criticiser with
his glasses up with his tall hat on him at the cricket match and a great his glasses up with his tall hat on him at the cricket match and a great
big hole in his sock one thing laughing at the other and his son that got big hole in his sock one thing laughing at the other and his son that got
all those prizes for whatever he won them in the intermediate imagine all those prizes for whatever he won them in the intermediate imagine
climbing over the railings if anybody saw him that knew us I wonder he climbing over the railings if anybody saw him that knew us I wonder he
didnt tear a big hole in his grand funeral trousers as if the one nature didnt tear a big hole in his grand funeral trousers as if the one nature
gave wasnt enough for anybody hawking him down into the dirty old kitchen gave wasnt enough for anybody hawking him down into the dirty old kitchen
now is he right in his head I ask pity it wasnt washing day my old pair now is he right in his head I ask pity it wasnt washing day my old pair
of drawers might have been hanging up too on the line on exhibition for of drawers might have been hanging up too on the line on exhibition for
all hed ever care with the ironmould mark the stupid old bundle burned on all hed ever care with the ironmould mark the stupid old bundle burned on
them he might think was something else and she never even rendered down them he might think was something else and she never even rendered down
the fat I told her and now shes going such as she was on account of her the fat I told her and now shes going such as she was on account of her
paralysed husband getting worse theres always something wrong with them paralysed husband getting worse theres always something wrong with them
disease or they have to go under an operation or if its not that its disease or they have to go under an operation or if its not that its
drink and he beats her Ill have to hunt around again for someone every drink and he beats her Ill have to hunt around again for someone every
day I get up theres some new thing on sweet God sweet God well when Im day I get up theres some new thing on sweet God sweet God well when Im
stretched out dead in my grave I suppose Ill have some peace I want to stretched out dead in my grave I suppose Ill have some peace I want to
get up a minute if Im let wait O Jesus wait yes that thing has come on me get up a minute if Im let wait O Jesus wait yes that thing has come on me
yes now wouldnt that afflict you of course all the poking and rooting and yes now wouldnt that afflict you of course all the poking and rooting and
ploughing he had up in me now what am I to do Friday Saturday Sunday ploughing he had up in me now what am I to do Friday Saturday Sunday
wouldnt that pester the soul out of a body unless he likes it some men do wouldnt that pester the soul out of a body unless he likes it some men do
God knows theres always something wrong with us 5 days every 3 or 4 weeks God knows theres always something wrong with us 5 days every 3 or 4 weeks
usual monthly auction isnt it simply sickening that night it came on me usual monthly auction isnt it simply sickening that night it came on me
like that the one and only time we were in a box that Michael Gunn gave like that the one and only time we were in a box that Michael Gunn gave
him to see Mrs Kendal and her husband at the Gaiety something he did him to see Mrs Kendal and her husband at the Gaiety something he did
about insurance for him in Drimmies I was fit to be tied though I wouldnt about insurance for him in Drimmies I was fit to be tied though I wouldnt
give in with that gentleman of fashion staring down at me with his give in with that gentleman of fashion staring down at me with his
glasses and him the other side of me talking about Spinoza and his soul glasses and him the other side of me talking about Spinoza and his soul
thats dead I suppose millions of years ago I smiled the best I could all thats dead I suppose millions of years ago I smiled the best I could all
in a swamp leaning forward as if I was interested having to sit it out in a swamp leaning forward as if I was interested having to sit it out
then to the last tag I wont forget that wife of Scarli in a hurry then to the last tag I wont forget that wife of Scarli in a hurry
supposed to be a fast play about adultery that idiot in the gallery supposed to be a fast play about adultery that idiot in the gallery
hissing the woman adulteress he shouted I suppose he went and had a woman hissing the woman adulteress he shouted I suppose he went and had a woman
in the next lane running round all the back ways after to make up for it in the next lane running round all the back ways after to make up for it
I wish he had what I had then hed boo I bet the cat itself is better off I wish he had what I had then hed boo I bet the cat itself is better off
than us have we too much blood up in us or what O patience above its than us have we too much blood up in us or what O patience above its
pouring out of me like the sea anyhow he didnt make me pregnant as big as pouring out of me like the sea anyhow he didnt make me pregnant as big as
he is I dont want to ruin the clean sheets I just put on I suppose the he is I dont want to ruin the clean sheets I just put on I suppose the
clean linen I wore brought it on too damn it damn it and they always want clean linen I wore brought it on too damn it damn it and they always want
to see a stain on the bed to know youre a virgin for them all thats to see a stain on the bed to know youre a virgin for them all thats
troubling them theyre such fools too you could be a widow or divorced 40 troubling them theyre such fools too you could be a widow or divorced 40
times over a daub of red ink would do or blackberry juice no thats too times over a daub of red ink would do or blackberry juice no thats too
purply O Jamesy let me up out of this pooh sweets of sin whoever purply O Jamesy let me up out of this pooh sweets of sin whoever
suggested that business for women what between clothes and cooking and suggested that business for women what between clothes and cooking and
children this damned old bed too jingling like the dickens I suppose they children this damned old bed too jingling like the dickens I suppose they
could hear us away over the other side of the park till I suggested to could hear us away over the other side of the park till I suggested to
put the quilt on the floor with the pillow under my bottom I wonder is it put the quilt on the floor with the pillow under my bottom I wonder is it
nicer in the day I think it is easy I think Ill cut all this hair off me nicer in the day I think it is easy I think Ill cut all this hair off me
there scalding me I might look like a young girl wouldnt he get the great there scalding me I might look like a young girl wouldnt he get the great
suckin the next time he turned up my clothes on me Id give anything to suckin the next time he turned up my clothes on me Id give anything to
see his face wheres the chamber gone easy Ive a holy horror of its see his face wheres the chamber gone easy Ive a holy horror of its
breaking under me after that old commode I wonder was I too heavy sitting breaking under me after that old commode I wonder was I too heavy sitting
on his knee I made him sit on the easychair purposely when I took off on his knee I made him sit on the easychair purposely when I took off
only my blouse and skirt first in the other room he was so busy where he only my blouse and skirt first in the other room he was so busy where he
oughtnt to be he never felt me I hope my breath was sweet after those oughtnt to be he never felt me I hope my breath was sweet after those
kissing comfits easy God I remember one time I could scout it out kissing comfits easy God I remember one time I could scout it out
straight whistling like a man almost easy O Lord how noisy I hope theyre straight whistling like a man almost easy O Lord how noisy I hope theyre
bubbles on it for a wad of money from some fellow Ill have to perfume it bubbles on it for a wad of money from some fellow Ill have to perfume it
candles, aspergills, unicorns. And as they wended their way by Nelson's candles, aspergills, unicorns. And as they wended their way by Nelson's
Pillar, Henry street, Mary street, Capel street, Little Britain street Pillar, Henry street, Mary street, Capel street, Little Britain street
chanting the introit in EPIPHANIA DOMINI which beginneth SURGE, chanting the introit in EPIPHANIA DOMINI which beginneth SURGE,
ILLUMINARE and thereafter most sweetly the gradual OMNES which saith ILLUMINARE and thereafter most sweetly the gradual OMNES which saith
DE SABA VENIENT they did divers wonders such as casting out devils, DE SABA VENIENT they did divers wonders such as casting out devils,
raising the dead to life, multiplying fishes, healing the halt and the raising the dead to life, multiplying fishes, healing the halt and the
blind, discovering various articles which had been mislaid, interpreting blind, discovering various articles which had been mislaid, interpreting
and fulfilling the scriptures, blessing and prophesying. And last, beneath and fulfilling the scriptures, blessing and prophesying. And last, beneath
a canopy of cloth of gold came the reverend Father O'Flynn attended by a canopy of cloth of gold came the reverend Father O'Flynn attended by
Malachi and Patrick. And when the good fathers had reached the appointed Malachi and Patrick. And when the good fathers had reached the appointed
place, the house of Bernard Kiernan and Co, limited, 8, 9 and 10 little place, the house of Bernard Kiernan and Co, limited, 8, 9 and 10 little
Britain street, wholesale grocers, wine and brandy shippers, licensed for Britain street, wholesale grocers, wine and brandy shippers, licensed for
the sale of beer, wine and spirits for consumption on the premises, the the sale of beer, wine and spirits for consumption on the premises, the
celebrant blessed the house and censed the mullioned windows and the celebrant blessed the house and censed the mullioned windows and the
groynes and the vaults and the arrises and the capitals and the pediments groynes and the vaults and the arrises and the capitals and the pediments
and the cornices and the engrailed arches and the spires and the cupolas and the cornices and the engrailed arches and the spires and the cupolas
and sprinkled the lintels thereof with blessed water and prayed that God and sprinkled the lintels thereof with blessed water and prayed that God
might bless that house as he had blessed the house of Abraham and Isaac might bless that house as he had blessed the house of Abraham and Isaac
and Jacob and make the angels of His light to inhabit therein. And and Jacob and make the angels of His light to inhabit therein. And
entering he blessed the viands and the beverages and the company of all entering he blessed the viands and the beverages and the company of all
seas on the summits of the Hill of Howth, Three Rock Mountain, Sugarloaf, seas on the summits of the Hill of Howth, Three Rock Mountain, Sugarloaf,
Bray Head, the mountains of Mourne, the Galtees, the Ox and Donegal and Bray Head, the mountains of Mourne, the Galtees, the Ox and Donegal and
Sperrin peaks, the Nagles and the Bograghs, the Connemara hills, the reeks Sperrin peaks, the Nagles and the Bograghs, the Connemara hills, the reeks
of M Gillicuddy, Slieve Aughty, Slieve Bernagh and Slieve Bloom. Amid of M Gillicuddy, Slieve Aughty, Slieve Bernagh and Slieve Bloom. Amid
cheers that rent the welkin, responded to by answering cheers from a big cheers that rent the welkin, responded to by answering cheers from a big
muster of henchmen on the distant Cambrian and Caledonian hills, the muster of henchmen on the distant Cambrian and Caledonian hills, the
mastodontic pleasureship slowly moved away saluted by a final floral mastodontic pleasureship slowly moved away saluted by a final floral
OBTAIN IT which, designed particularly for commercial men engaged in OBTAIN IT which, designed particularly for commercial men engaged in
sedentary occupations, were to be made with mental concentration in front sedentary occupations, were to be made with mental concentration in front
of a mirror so as to bring into play the various families of muscles and of a mirror so as to bring into play the various families of muscles and
to Edy Boardman, a deliberate lie, when she was black out at daggers to Edy Boardman, a deliberate lie, when she was black out at daggers
drawn with Gerty (the girl chums had of course their little tiffs drawn with Gerty (the girl chums had of course their little tiffs
from time to time like the rest of mortals) and she told her not to from time to time like the rest of mortals) and she told her not to
let on whatever she did that it was her that told her or she'd never let on whatever she did that it was her that told her or she'd never
speak to her again. No. Honour where honour is due. There was an speak to her again. No. Honour where honour is due. There was an
innate refinement, a languid queenly HAUTEUR about Gerty which innate refinement, a languid queenly HAUTEUR about Gerty which
was unmistakably evidenced in her delicate hands and higharched instep. was unmistakably evidenced in her delicate hands and higharched instep.
Had kind fate but willed her to be born a gentlewoman of high degree in Had kind fate but willed her to be born a gentlewoman of high degree in
her own right and had she only received the benefit of a good education her own right and had she only received the benefit of a good education
Gerty MacDowell might easily have held her own beside any lady in the Gerty MacDowell might easily have held her own beside any lady in the
land and have seen herself exquisitely gowned with jewels on her brow and land and have seen herself exquisitely gowned with jewels on her brow and
patrician suitors at her feet vying with one another to pay their devoirs patrician suitors at her feet vying with one another to pay their devoirs
to her. Mayhap it was this, the love that might have been, that lent to to her. Mayhap it was this, the love that might have been, that lent to
her softlyfeatured face at whiles a look, tense with suppressed meaning, her softlyfeatured face at whiles a look, tense with suppressed meaning,
that imparted a strange yearning tendency to the beautiful eyes, a charm that imparted a strange yearning tendency to the beautiful eyes, a charm
few could resist. Why have women such eyes of witchery? Gerty's were of few could resist. Why have women such eyes of witchery? Gerty's were of
for himself, floundering up and down the antipodes and all that sort of for himself, floundering up and down the antipodes and all that sort of
thing and over and under, well, not exactly under, tempting the fates. thing and over and under, well, not exactly under, tempting the fates.
And the odds were twenty to nil there was really no secret about it at And the odds were twenty to nil there was really no secret about it at
all. Nevertheless, without going into the MINUTIAE of the business, the all. Nevertheless, without going into the MINUTIAE of the business, the
eloquent fact remained that the sea was there in all its glory and in the eloquent fact remained that the sea was there in all its glory and in the
natural course of things somebody or other had to sail on it and fly in natural course of things somebody or other had to sail on it and fly in
the face of providence though it merely went to show how people usually the face of providence though it merely went to show how people usually
contrived to load that sort of onus on to the other fellow like the hell contrived to load that sort of onus on to the other fellow like the hell
idea and the lottery and insurance which were run on identically the same idea and the lottery and insurance which were run on identically the same
lines so that for that very reason if no other lifeboat Sunday was a lines so that for that very reason if no other lifeboat Sunday was a
highly laudable institution to which the public at large, no matter where highly laudable institution to which the public at large, no matter where
living inland or seaside, as the case might be, having it brought home to living inland or seaside, as the case might be, having it brought home to
them like that should extend its gratitude also to the harbourmasters and them like that should extend its gratitude also to the harbourmasters and
coastguard service who had to man the rigging and push off and out amid coastguard service who had to man the rigging and push off and out amid
the elements whatever the season when duty called IRELAND EXPECTS THAT the elements whatever the season when duty called IRELAND EXPECTS THAT
EVERY MAN and so on and sometimes had a terrible time of it in the EVERY MAN and so on and sometimes had a terrible time of it in the
wintertime not forgetting the Irish lights, Kish and others, liable to wintertime not forgetting the Irish lights, Kish and others, liable to
capsize at any moment, rounding which he once with his daughter had capsize at any moment, rounding which he once with his daughter had
experienced some remarkably choppy, not to say stormy, weather. experienced some remarkably choppy, not to say stormy, weather.
--There was a fellow sailed with me in the Rover, the old seadog, himself --There was a fellow sailed with me in the Rover, the old seadog, himself
a rover, proceeded, went ashore and took up a soft job as gentleman's a rover, proceeded, went ashore and took up a soft job as gentleman's
valet at six quid a month. Them are his trousers I've on me and he gave valet at six quid a month. Them are his trousers I've on me and he gave
me an oilskin and that jackknife. I'm game for that job, shaving and me an oilskin and that jackknife. I'm game for that job, shaving and
brushup. I hate roaming about. There's my son now, Danny, run off to sea brushup. I hate roaming about. There's my son now, Danny, run off to sea
and his mother got him took in a draper's in Cork where he could be and his mother got him took in a draper's in Cork where he could be
drawing easy money. drawing easy money.
--What age is he? queried one hearer who, by the way, seen from the side, --What age is he? queried one hearer who, by the way, seen from the side,
bore a distant resemblance to Henry Campbell, the townclerk, away from bore a distant resemblance to Henry Campbell, the townclerk, away from
the carking cares of office, unwashed of course and in a seedy getup and the carking cares of office, unwashed of course and in a seedy getup and
a strong suspicion of nosepaint about the nasal appendage. a strong suspicion of nosepaint about the nasal appendage.
--Why, the sailor answered with a slow puzzled utterance, my son, Danny? --Why, the sailor answered with a slow puzzled utterance, my son, Danny?
He'd be about eighteen now, way I figure it. He'd be about eighteen now, way I figure it.
The Skibbereen father hereupon tore open his grey or unclean anyhow shirt The Skibbereen father hereupon tore open his grey or unclean anyhow shirt
with his two hands and scratched away at his chest on which was to be with his two hands and scratched away at his chest on which was to be
seen an image tattooed in blue Chinese ink intended to represent an seen an image tattooed in blue Chinese ink intended to represent an
anchor. anchor.
--There was lice in that bunk in Bridgwater, he remarked, sure as nuts. I --There was lice in that bunk in Bridgwater, he remarked, sure as nuts. I
must get a wash tomorrow or next day. It's them black lads I objects to. must get a wash tomorrow or next day. It's them black lads I objects to.
I hate those buggers. Suck your blood dry, they does. I hate those buggers. Suck your blood dry, they does.
Seeing they were all looking at his chest he accommodatingly dragged his Seeing they were all looking at his chest he accommodatingly dragged his
shirt more open so that on top of the timehonoured symbol of the shirt more open so that on top of the timehonoured symbol of the
mariner's hope and rest they had a full view of the figure 16 and a young mariner's hope and rest they had a full view of the figure 16 and a young
man's sideface looking frowningly rather. man's sideface looking frowningly rather.
--Tattoo, the exhibitor explained. That was done when we were Iying --Tattoo, the exhibitor explained. That was done when we were Iying
becalmed off Odessa in the Black Sea under Captain Dalton. Fellow, the becalmed off Odessa in the Black Sea under Captain Dalton. Fellow, the
name of Antonio, done that. There he is himself, a Greek. name of Antonio, done that. There he is himself, a Greek.
--Did it hurt much doing it? one asked the sailor. --Did it hurt much doing it? one asked the sailor.
That worthy, however, was busily engaged in collecting round the. Someway That worthy, however, was busily engaged in collecting round the. Someway
in his. Squeezing or. in his. Squeezing or.
--See here, he said, showing Antonio. There he is cursing the mate. And --See here, he said, showing Antonio. There he is cursing the mate. And
there he is now, he added, the same fellow, pulling the skin with his there he is now, he added, the same fellow, pulling the skin with his
fingers, some special knack evidently, and he laughing at a yarn. fingers, some special knack evidently, and he laughing at a yarn.
And in point of fact the young man named Antonio's livid face did And in point of fact the young man named Antonio's livid face did
actually look like forced smiling and the curious effect excited the actually look like forced smiling and the curious effect excited the
unreserved admiration of everybody including Skin-the-Goat, who this time unreserved admiration of everybody including Skin-the-Goat, who this time
stretched over. stretched over.
--Ay, ay, sighed the sailor, looking down on his manly chest. He's gone --Ay, ay, sighed the sailor, looking down on his manly chest. He's gone
too. Ate by sharks after. Ay, ay. too. Ate by sharks after. Ay, ay.
He let go of the skin so that the profile resumed the normal expression He let go of the skin so that the profile resumed the normal expression
of before. of before.
--Neat bit of work, one longshoreman said. --Neat bit of work, one longshoreman said.
--And what's the number for? loafer number two queried. --And what's the number for? loafer number two queried.
--Eaten alive? a third asked the sailor. --Eaten alive? a third asked the sailor.
--Ay, ay, sighed again the latter personage, more cheerily this time with --Ay, ay, sighed again the latter personage, more cheerily this time with
some sort of a half smile for a brief duration only in the direction of some sort of a half smile for a brief duration only in the direction of
the questioner about the number. Ate. A Greek he was. the questioner about the number. Ate. A Greek he was.
And then he added with rather gallowsbird humour considering his alleged And then he added with rather gallowsbird humour considering his alleged
end: end:
    --AS BAD AS OLD ANTONIO,     --AS BAD AS OLD ANTONIO,
    FOR HE LEFT ME ON MY OWNIO.     FOR HE LEFT ME ON MY OWNIO.
The face of a streetwalker glazed and haggard under a black straw hat The face of a streetwalker glazed and haggard under a black straw hat
peered askew round the door of the shelter palpably reconnoitring on her peered askew round the door of the shelter palpably reconnoitring on her
own with the object of bringing more grist to her mill. Mr Bloom, own with the object of bringing more grist to her mill. Mr Bloom,
scarcely knowing which way to look, turned away on the moment flusterfied scarcely knowing which way to look, turned away on the moment flusterfied
but outwardly calm, and, picking up from the table the pink sheet of the but outwardly calm, and, picking up from the table the pink sheet of the
Abbey street organ which the jarvey, if such he was, had laid aside, he Abbey street organ which the jarvey, if such he was, had laid aside, he
picked it up and looked at the pink of the paper though why pink. His picked it up and looked at the pink of the paper though why pink. His
reason for so doing was he recognised on the moment round the door the reason for so doing was he recognised on the moment round the door the
same face he had caught a fleeting glimpse of that afternoon on Ormond same face he had caught a fleeting glimpse of that afternoon on Ormond
quay, the partially idiotic female, namely, of the lane who knew the lady quay, the partially idiotic female, namely, of the lane who knew the lady
in the brown costume does be with you (Mrs B.) and begged the chance of in the brown costume does be with you (Mrs B.) and begged the chance of
his washing. Also why washing which seemed rather vague than not, your his washing. Also why washing which seemed rather vague than not, your
washing. Still candour compelled him to admit he had washed his wife's washing. Still candour compelled him to admit he had washed his wife's
undergarments when soiled in Holles street and women would and did too a undergarments when soiled in Holles street and women would and did too a
man's similar garments initialled with Bewley and Draper's marking ink man's similar garments initialled with Bewley and Draper's marking ink
(hers were, that is) if they really loved him, that is to say, love me, (hers were, that is) if they really loved him, that is to say, love me,
love my dirty shirt. Still just then, being on tenterhooks, he desired love my dirty shirt. Still just then, being on tenterhooks, he desired
the female's room more than her company so it came as a genuine relief the female's room more than her company so it came as a genuine relief
when the keeper made her a rude sign to take herself off. Round the side when the keeper made her a rude sign to take herself off. Round the side
of the Evening Telegraph he just caught a fleeting glimpse of her face of the Evening Telegraph he just caught a fleeting glimpse of her face
round the side of the door with a kind of demented glassy grin showing round the side of the door with a kind of demented glassy grin showing
that she was not exactly all there, viewing with evident amusement the that she was not exactly all there, viewing with evident amusement the
group of gazers round skipper Murphy's nautical chest and then there was group of gazers round skipper Murphy's nautical chest and then there was
no more of her. no more of her.
--The gunboat, the keeper said. --The gunboat, the keeper said.
--It beats me, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen, medically I am speaking, how --It beats me, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen, medically I am speaking, how
a wretched creature like that from the Lock hospital reeking with disease a wretched creature like that from the Lock hospital reeking with disease
can be barefaced enough to solicit or how any man in his sober senses, if can be barefaced enough to solicit or how any man in his sober senses, if
he values his health in the least. Unfortunate creature! Of course I he values his health in the least. Unfortunate creature! Of course I
suppose some man is ultimately responsible for her condition. Still no suppose some man is ultimately responsible for her condition. Still no
matter what the cause is from ... matter what the cause is from ...
Stephen had not noticed her and shrugged his shoulders, merely remarking: Stephen had not noticed her and shrugged his shoulders, merely remarking:
--In this country people sell much more than she ever had and do a --In this country people sell much more than she ever had and do a
roaring trade. Fear not them that sell the body but have not power to buy roaring trade. Fear not them that sell the body but have not power to buy
the soul. She is a bad merchant. She buys dear and sells cheap. the soul. She is a bad merchant. She buys dear and sells cheap.
The elder man, though not by any manner of means an old maid or a prude, The elder man, though not by any manner of means an old maid or a prude,
said it was nothing short of a crying scandal that ought to be put a stop said it was nothing short of a crying scandal that ought to be put a stop
to INSTANTER to say that women of that stamp (quite apart from any to INSTANTER to say that women of that stamp (quite apart from any
oldmaidish squeamishness on the subject), a necessary evil, w ere not oldmaidish squeamishness on the subject), a necessary evil, w ere not
licensed and medically inspected by the proper authorities, a thing, he licensed and medically inspected by the proper authorities, a thing, he
could truthfully state, he, as a PATERFAMILIAS, was a stalwart advocate could truthfully state, he, as a PATERFAMILIAS, was a stalwart advocate
of from the very first start. Whoever embarked on a policy of the sort, of from the very first start. Whoever embarked on a policy of the sort,
he said, and ventilated the matter thoroughly would confer a lasting boon he said, and ventilated the matter thoroughly would confer a lasting boon
on everybody concerned. on everybody concerned.
--You as a good catholic, he observed, talking of body and soul, believe --You as a good catholic, he observed, talking of body and soul, believe
in the soul. Or do you mean the intelligence, the brainpower as such, as in the soul. Or do you mean the intelligence, the brainpower as such, as
distinct from any outside object, the table, let us say, that cup. I distinct from any outside object, the table, let us say, that cup. I
believe in that myself because it has been explained by competent men as believe in that myself because it has been explained by competent men as
the convolutions of the grey matter. Otherwise we would never have such the convolutions of the grey matter. Otherwise we would never have such
inventions as X rays, for instance. Do you? inventions as X rays, for instance. Do you?
Thus cornered, Stephen had to make a superhuman effort of memory to try Thus cornered, Stephen had to make a superhuman effort of memory to try
and concentrate and remember before he could say: and concentrate and remember before he could say:
--They tell me on the best authority it is a simple substance and --They tell me on the best authority it is a simple substance and
therefore incorruptible. It would be immortal, I understand, but for the therefore incorruptible. It would be immortal, I understand, but for the
possibility of its annihilation by its First Cause Who, from all I can possibility of its annihilation by its First Cause Who, from all I can
hear, is quite capable of adding that to the number of His other hear, is quite capable of adding that to the number of His other
practical jokes, CORRUPTIO PER SE and CORRUPTIO PER ACCIDENS both being practical jokes, CORRUPTIO PER SE and CORRUPTIO PER ACCIDENS both being
excluded by court etiquette. excluded by court etiquette.
Mr Bloom thoroughly acquiesced in the general gist of this though the Mr Bloom thoroughly acquiesced in the general gist of this though the
mystical finesse involved was a bit out of his sublunary depth still he mystical finesse involved was a bit out of his sublunary depth still he
felt bound to enter a demurrer on the head of simple, promptly rejoining: felt bound to enter a demurrer on the head of simple, promptly rejoining:
--Simple? I shouldn't think that is the proper word. Of course, I grant --Simple? I shouldn't think that is the proper word. Of course, I grant
you, to concede a point, you do knock across a simple soul once in a blue you, to concede a point, you do knock across a simple soul once in a blue
moon. But what I am anxious to arrive at is it is one thing for instance moon. But what I am anxious to arrive at is it is one thing for instance
to invent those rays Rontgen did or the telescope like Edison, though I to invent those rays Rontgen did or the telescope like Edison, though I
believe it was before his time Galileo was the man, I mean, and the same believe it was before his time Galileo was the man, I mean, and the same
applies to the laws, for example, of a farreaching natural phenomenon applies to the laws, for example, of a farreaching natural phenomenon
such as electricity but it's a horse of quite another colour to say you such as electricity but it's a horse of quite another colour to say you
believe in the existence of a supernatural God. believe in the existence of a supernatural God.
--O that, Stephen expostulated, has been proved conclusively by several --O that, Stephen expostulated, has been proved conclusively by several
of the bestknown passages in Holy Writ, apart from circumstantial of the bestknown passages in Holy Writ, apart from circumstantial
evidence. evidence.
On this knotty point however the views of the pair, poles apart as they On this knotty point however the views of the pair, poles apart as they
were both in schooling and everything else with the marked difference in were both in schooling and everything else with the marked difference in
their respective ages, clashed. their respective ages, clashed.
--Has been? the more experienced of the two objected, sticking to his --Has been? the more experienced of the two objected, sticking to his
original point with a smile of unbelief. I'm not so sure about that. original point with a smile of unbelief. I'm not so sure about that.
That's a matter for everyman's opinion and, without dragging in the That's a matter for everyman's opinion and, without dragging in the
sectarian side of the business, I beg to differ with you IN TOTO there. sectarian side of the business, I beg to differ with you IN TOTO there.
My belief is, to tell you the candid truth, that those bits were genuine My belief is, to tell you the candid truth, that those bits were genuine
forgeries all of them put in by monks most probably or it's the big forgeries all of them put in by monks most probably or it's the big
question of our national poet over again, who precisely wrote them like question of our national poet over again, who precisely wrote them like
HAMLET and Bacon, as, you who know your Shakespeare infinitely better HAMLET and Bacon, as, you who know your Shakespeare infinitely better
than I, of course I needn't tell you. Can't you drink that coffee, by the than I, of course I needn't tell you. Can't you drink that coffee, by the
way? Let me stir it. And take a piece of that bun. It's like one of our way? Let me stir it. And take a piece of that bun. It's like one of our
skipper's bricks disguised. Still no-one can give what he hasn't got. Try skipper's bricks disguised. Still no-one can give what he hasn't got. Try
a bit. a bit.
--Couldn't, Stephen contrived to get out, his mental organs for the --Couldn't, Stephen contrived to get out, his mental organs for the
moment refusing to dictate further. moment refusing to dictate further.
Faultfinding being a proverbially bad hat Mr Bloom thought well to stir Faultfinding being a proverbially bad hat Mr Bloom thought well to stir
or try to the clotted sugar from the bottom and reflected with something or try to the clotted sugar from the bottom and reflected with something
approaching acrimony on the Coffee Palace and its temperance (and approaching acrimony on the Coffee Palace and its temperance (and
lucrative) work. To be sure it was a legitimate object and beyond yea or lucrative) work. To be sure it was a legitimate object and beyond yea or
nay did a world of good, shelters such as the present one they were in nay did a world of good, shelters such as the present one they were in
run on teetotal lines for vagrants at night, concerts, dramatic evenings run on teetotal lines for vagrants at night, concerts, dramatic evenings
and useful lectures (admittance free) by qualified men for the lower and useful lectures (admittance free) by qualified men for the lower
orders. On the other hand he had a distinct and painful recollection they orders. On the other hand he had a distinct and painful recollection they
paid his wife, Madam Marion Tweedy who had been prominently associated paid his wife, Madam Marion Tweedy who had been prominently associated
with it at one time, a very modest remuneration indeed for her with it at one time, a very modest remuneration indeed for her
pianoplaying. The idea, he was strongly inclined to believe, was to do pianoplaying. The idea, he was strongly inclined to believe, was to do
good and net a profit, there being no competition to speak of. Sulphate good and net a profit, there being no competition to speak of. Sulphate
of copper poison SO4 or something in some dried peas he remembered of copper poison SO4 or something in some dried peas he remembered
reading of in a cheap eatinghouse somewhere but he couldn't remember when reading of in a cheap eatinghouse somewhere but he couldn't remember when
it was or where. Anyhow inspection, medical inspection, of all eatables it was or where. Anyhow inspection, medical inspection, of all eatables
seemed to him more than ever necessary which possibly accounted for the seemed to him more than ever necessary which possibly accounted for the
vogue of Dr Tibble's Vi-Cocoa on account of the medical analysis vogue of Dr Tibble's Vi-Cocoa on account of the medical analysis
involved. involved.
--Have a shot at it now, he ventured to say of the coffee after being --Have a shot at it now, he ventured to say of the coffee after being
stirred. stirred.
 Thus prevailed on to at any rate taste it Stephen lifted the heavy mug  Thus prevailed on to at any rate taste it Stephen lifted the heavy mug
from the brown puddle it clopped out of when taken up by the handle and from the brown puddle it clopped out of when taken up by the handle and
took a sip of the offending beverage. took a sip of the offending beverage.
--Still it's solid food, his good genius urged, I'm a stickler for solid --Still it's solid food, his good genius urged, I'm a stickler for solid
food, his one and only reason being not gormandising in the least but food, his one and only reason being not gormandising in the least but
regular meals as the SINE QUA NON for any kind of proper work, mental or regular meals as the SINE QUA NON for any kind of proper work, mental or
manual. You ought to eat more solid food. You would feel a different man. manual. You ought to eat more solid food. You would feel a different man.
--Liquids I can eat, Stephen said. But O, oblige me by taking away that --Liquids I can eat, Stephen said. But O, oblige me by taking away that
knife. I can't look at the point of it. It reminds me of Roman history. knife. I can't look at the point of it. It reminds me of Roman history.
Mr Bloom promptly did as suggested and removed the incriminated article, Mr Bloom promptly did as suggested and removed the incriminated article,
a blunt hornhandled ordinary knife with nothing particularly Roman or a blunt hornhandled ordinary knife with nothing particularly Roman or
antique about it to the lay eye, observing that the point was the least antique about it to the lay eye, observing that the point was the least
conspicuous point about it. conspicuous point about it.
--Our mutual friend's stories are like himself, Mr Bloom APROPOS of --Our mutual friend's stories are like himself, Mr Bloom APROPOS of
knives remarked to his CONFIDANTE SOTTO VOCE. Do you think they are knives remarked to his CONFIDANTE SOTTO VOCE. Do you think they are
genuine? He could spin those yarns for hours on end all night long and genuine? He could spin those yarns for hours on end all night long and
lie like old boots. Look at him. lie like old boots. Look at him.
Yet still though his eyes were thick with sleep and sea air life was full Yet still though his eyes were thick with sleep and sea air life was full
of a host of things and coincidences of a terrible nature and it was of a host of things and coincidences of a terrible nature and it was
quite within the bounds of possibility that it was not an entire quite within the bounds of possibility that it was not an entire
fabrication though at first blush there was not much inherent probability fabrication though at first blush there was not much inherent probability
in all the spoof he got off his chest being strictly accurate gospel. in all the spoof he got off his chest being strictly accurate gospel.
He had been meantime taking stock of the individual in front of him and He had been meantime taking stock of the individual in front of him and
Sherlockholmesing him up ever since he clapped eyes on him. Though a Sherlockholmesing him up ever since he clapped eyes on him. Though a
wellpreserved man of no little stamina, if a trifle prone to baldness, wellpreserved man of no little stamina, if a trifle prone to baldness,
there was something spurious in the cut of his jib that suggested a jail there was something spurious in the cut of his jib that suggested a jail
delivery and it required no violent stretch of imagination to associate delivery and it required no violent stretch of imagination to associate
such a weirdlooking specimen with the oakum and treadmill fraternity. He such a weirdlooking specimen with the oakum and treadmill fraternity. He
might even have done for his man supposing it was his own case he told, might even have done for his man supposing it was his own case he told,
as people often did about others, namely, that he killed him himself and as people often did about others, namely, that he killed him himself and
had served his four or five goodlooking years in durance vile to say had served his four or five goodlooking years in durance vile to say
nothing of the Antonio personage (no relation to the dramatic personage nothing of the Antonio personage (no relation to the dramatic personage
of identical name who sprang from the pen of our national poet) who of identical name who sprang from the pen of our national poet) who
expiated his crimes in the melodramatic manner above described. On the expiated his crimes in the melodramatic manner above described. On the
other hand he might be only bluffing, a pardonable weakness because other hand he might be only bluffing, a pardonable weakness because
meeting unmistakable mugs, Dublin residents, like those jarvies waiting meeting unmistakable mugs, Dublin residents, like those jarvies waiting
news from abroad would tempt any ancient mariner who sailed the ocean news from abroad would tempt any ancient mariner who sailed the ocean
seas to draw the long bow about the schooner HESPERUS and etcetera. And seas to draw the long bow about the schooner HESPERUS and etcetera. And
when all was said and done the lies a fellow told about himself couldn't when all was said and done the lies a fellow told about himself couldn't
probably hold a proverbial candle to the wholesale whoppers other fellows probably hold a proverbial candle to the wholesale whoppers other fellows
coined about him. coined about him.
--Mind you, I'm not saying that it's all a pure invention, he resumed. --Mind you, I'm not saying that it's all a pure invention, he resumed.
Analogous scenes are occasionally, if not often, met with. Giants, though Analogous scenes are occasionally, if not often, met with. Giants, though
that is rather a far cry, you see once in a way, Marcella the midget that is rather a far cry, you see once in a way, Marcella the midget
queen. In those waxworks in Henry street I myself saw some Aztecs, as queen. In those waxworks in Henry street I myself saw some Aztecs, as
they are called, sitting bowlegged, they couldn't straighten their legs they are called, sitting bowlegged, they couldn't straighten their legs
if you paid them because the muscles here, you see, he proceeded, if you paid them because the muscles here, you see, he proceeded,
indicating on his companion the brief outline of the sinews or whatever indicating on his companion the brief outline of the sinews or whatever
you like to call them behind the right knee, were utterly powerless from you like to call them behind the right knee, were utterly powerless from
sitting that way so long cramped up, being adored as gods. There's an sitting that way so long cramped up, being adored as gods. There's an
example again of simple souls. example again of simple souls.
However reverting to friend Sinbad and his horrifying adventures (who However reverting to friend Sinbad and his horrifying adventures (who
reminded him a bit of Ludwig, ALIAS Ledwidge, when he occupied the boards reminded him a bit of Ludwig, ALIAS Ledwidge, when he occupied the boards
of the Gaiety when Michael Gunn was identified with the management in the of the Gaiety when Michael Gunn was identified with the management in the
FLYING DUTCHMAN, a stupendous success, and his host of admirers came in FLYING DUTCHMAN, a stupendous success, and his host of admirers came in
large numbers, everyone simply flocking to hear him though ships of any large numbers, everyone simply flocking to hear him though ships of any
sort, phantom or the reverse, on the stage usually fell a bit flat as sort, phantom or the reverse, on the stage usually fell a bit flat as
also did trains) there was nothing intrinsically incompatible about it, also did trains) there was nothing intrinsically incompatible about it,
he conceded. On the contrary that stab in the back touch was quite in he conceded. On the contrary that stab in the back touch was quite in
keeping with those italianos though candidly he was none the less free to keeping with those italianos though candidly he was none the less free to
admit those icecreamers and friers in the fish way not to mention the admit those icecreamers and friers in the fish way not to mention the
chip potato variety and so forth over in little Italy there near the chip potato variety and so forth over in little Italy there near the
Coombe were sober thrifty hardworking fellows except perhaps a bit too Coombe were sober thrifty hardworking fellows except perhaps a bit too
given to pothunting the harmless necessary animal of the feline given to pothunting the harmless necessary animal of the feline
persuasion of others at night so as to have a good old succulent tuckin persuasion of others at night so as to have a good old succulent tuckin
with garlic DE RIGUEUR off him or her next day on the quiet and, he with garlic DE RIGUEUR off him or her next day on the quiet and, he
added, on the cheap. added, on the cheap.
--Spaniards, for instance, he continued, passionate temperaments like --Spaniards, for instance, he continued, passionate temperaments like
that, impetuous as Old Nick, are given to taking the law into their own that, impetuous as Old Nick, are given to taking the law into their own
hands and give you your quietus doublequick with those poignards they hands and give you your quietus doublequick with those poignards they
carry in the abdomen. It comes from the great heat, climate generally. My carry in the abdomen. It comes from the great heat, climate generally. My
wife is, so to speak, Spanish, half that is. Point of fact she could wife is, so to speak, Spanish, half that is. Point of fact she could
actually claim Spanish nationality if she wanted, having been born in actually claim Spanish nationality if she wanted, having been born in
(technically) Spain, i.e. Gibraltar. She has the Spanish type. Quite (technically) Spain, i.e. Gibraltar. She has the Spanish type. Quite
dark, regular brunette, black. I for one certainly believe climate dark, regular brunette, black. I for one certainly believe climate
accounts for character. That's why I asked you if you wrote your poetry accounts for character. That's why I asked you if you wrote your poetry
in Italian. in Italian.
--The temperaments at the door, Stephen interposed with, were very --The temperaments at the door, Stephen interposed with, were very
passionate about ten shillings. ROBERTO RUBA ROBA SUA. passionate about ten shillings. ROBERTO RUBA ROBA SUA.
--Quite so, Mr Bloom dittoed. --Quite so, Mr Bloom dittoed.
--Then, Stephen said staring and rambling on to himself or some unknown --Then, Stephen said staring and rambling on to himself or some unknown
listener somewhere, we have the impetuosity of Dante and the isosceles listener somewhere, we have the impetuosity of Dante and the isosceles
triangle miss Portinari he fell in love with and Leonardo and san Tommaso triangle miss Portinari he fell in love with and Leonardo and san Tommaso
Mastino. Mastino.
--It's in the blood, Mr Bloom acceded at once. All are washed in the --It's in the blood, Mr Bloom acceded at once. All are washed in the
blood of the sun. Coincidence I just happened to be in the Kildare street blood of the sun. Coincidence I just happened to be in the Kildare street
museum today, shortly prior to our meeting if I can so call it, and I museum today, shortly prior to our meeting if I can so call it, and I
was just looking at those antique statues there. The splendid proportions was just looking at those antique statues there. The splendid proportions
of hips, bosom. You simply don't knock against those kind of women here. of hips, bosom. You simply don't knock against those kind of women here.
An exception here and there. Handsome yes, pretty in a way you find but An exception here and there. Handsome yes, pretty in a way you find but
what I'm talking about is the female form. Besides they have so little what I'm talking about is the female form. Besides they have so little
taste in dress, most of them, which greatly enhances a woman's natural taste in dress, most of them, which greatly enhances a woman's natural
beauty, no matter what you say. Rumpled stockings, it may be, possibly beauty, no matter what you say. Rumpled stockings, it may be, possibly
is, a foible of mine but still it's a thing I simply hate to see. is, a foible of mine but still it's a thing I simply hate to see.
Interest, however, was starting to flag somewhat all round and then the Interest, however, was starting to flag somewhat all round and then the
others got on to talking about accidents at sea, ships lost in a fog, goo others got on to talking about accidents at sea, ships lost in a fog, goo
collisions with icebergs, all that sort of thing. Shipahoy of course had collisions with icebergs, all that sort of thing. Shipahoy of course had
his own say to say. He had doubled the cape a few odd times and weathered his own say to say. He had doubled the cape a few odd times and weathered
a monsoon, a kind of wind, in the China seas and through all those perils a monsoon, a kind of wind, in the China seas and through all those perils
of the deep there was one thing, he declared, stood to him or words to of the deep there was one thing, he declared, stood to him or words to
that effect, a pious medal he had that saved him. that effect, a pious medal he had that saved him.
So then after that they drifted on to the wreck off Daunt's rock, wreck So then after that they drifted on to the wreck off Daunt's rock, wreck
of that illfated Norwegian barque nobody could think of her name for the of that illfated Norwegian barque nobody could think of her name for the
moment till the jarvey who had really quite a look of Henry Campbell moment till the jarvey who had really quite a look of Henry Campbell
remembered it PALME on Booterstown strand. That was the talk of the town remembered it PALME on Booterstown strand. That was the talk of the town
that year (Albert William Quill wrote a fine piece of original verse of that year (Albert William Quill wrote a fine piece of original verse of
distinctive merit on the topic for the Irish TIMES), breakers running distinctive merit on the topic for the Irish TIMES), breakers running
over her and crowds and crowds on the shore in commotion petrified with over her and crowds and crowds on the shore in commotion petrified with
horror. Then someone said something about the case of the S. S. LADY horror. Then someone said something about the case of the S. S. LADY
CAIRNS of Swansea run into by the MONA which was on an opposite tack in CAIRNS of Swansea run into by the MONA which was on an opposite tack in
rather muggyish weather and lost with all hands on deck. No aid was rather muggyish weather and lost with all hands on deck. No aid was
given. Her master, the MONA'S, said he was afraid his collision bulkhead given. Her master, the MONA'S, said he was afraid his collision bulkhead
would give way. She had no water, it appears, in her hold. would give way. She had no water, it appears, in her hold.
At this stage an incident happened. It having become necessary for him to At this stage an incident happened. It having become necessary for him to
unfurl a reef the sailor vacated his seat. unfurl a reef the sailor vacated his seat.
--Let me cross your bows mate, he said to his neighbour who was just --Let me cross your bows mate, he said to his neighbour who was just
gently dropping off into a peaceful doze. gently dropping off into a peaceful doze.
He made tracks heavily, slowly with a dumpy sort of a gait to the door, He made tracks heavily, slowly with a dumpy sort of a gait to the door,
stepped heavily down the one step there was out of the shelter and bore stepped heavily down the one step there was out of the shelter and bore
due left. While he was in the act of getting his bearings Mr Bloom who due left. While he was in the act of getting his bearings Mr Bloom who
noticed when he stood up that he had two flasks of presumably ship's rum noticed when he stood up that he had two flasks of presumably ship's rum
sticking one out of each pocket for the private consumption of his sticking one out of each pocket for the private consumption of his
burning interior, saw him produce a bottle and uncork it or unscrew and, burning interior, saw him produce a bottle and uncork it or unscrew and,
applying its nozzle to his lips, take a good old delectable swig out of applying its nozzle to his lips, take a good old delectable swig out of
growled in wouldbe music but with great vim some kind of chanty or other growled in wouldbe music but with great vim some kind of chanty or other
in seconds or thirds. Mr Bloom's sharp ears heard him then expectorate in seconds or thirds. Mr Bloom's sharp ears heard him then expectorate
the plug probably (which it was), so that he must have lodged it for the the plug probably (which it was), so that he must have lodged it for the
time being in his fist while he did the drinking and making water jobs time being in his fist while he did the drinking and making water jobs
and found it a bit sour after the liquid fire in question. Anyhow in he and found it a bit sour after the liquid fire in question. Anyhow in he
rolled after his successful libation-CUM-potation, introducing an rolled after his successful libation-CUM-potation, introducing an
atmosphere of drink into the SOIREE, boisterously trolling, like a atmosphere of drink into the SOIREE, boisterously trolling, like a
veritable son of a seacook: veritable son of a seacook:
    --THE BISCUITS WAS AS HARD AS BRASS     --THE BISCUITS WAS AS HARD AS BRASS
      AND THE BEEF AS SALT AS LOT'S WIFE'S ARSE.       AND THE BEEF AS SALT AS LOT'S WIFE'S ARSE.
      O, JOHNNY LEVER!       O, JOHNNY LEVER!
      JOHNNY LEVER, O!       JOHNNY LEVER, O!
After which effusion the redoubtable specimen duly arrived on the scene After which effusion the redoubtable specimen duly arrived on the scene
and regaining his seat he sank rather than sat heavily on the form and regaining his seat he sank rather than sat heavily on the form
provided. Skin-the-Goat, assuming he was he, evidently with an axe to provided. Skin-the-Goat, assuming he was he, evidently with an axe to
grind, was airing his grievances in a forcible-feeble philippic anent the grind, was airing his grievances in a forcible-feeble philippic anent the
natural resources of Ireland or something of that sort which he described natural resources of Ireland or something of that sort which he described
in his lengthy dissertation as the richest country bar none on the face in his lengthy dissertation as the richest country bar none on the face
of God's earth, far and away superior to England, with coal in large of God's earth, far and away superior to England, with coal in large
quantities, six million pounds worth of pork exported every year, ten quantities, six million pounds worth of pork exported every year, ten
millions between butter and eggs and all the riches drained out of it by millions between butter and eggs and all the riches drained out of it by
England levying taxes on the poor people that paid through the nose England levying taxes on the poor people that paid through the nose
always and gobbling up the best meat in the market and a lot more surplus always and gobbling up the best meat in the market and a lot more surplus
steam in the same vein. Their conversation accordingly became general and steam in the same vein. Their conversation accordingly became general and
all agreed that that was a fact. You could grow any mortal thing in Irish all agreed that that was a fact. You could grow any mortal thing in Irish
soil, he stated, and there was that colonel Everard down there in Navan soil, he stated, and there was that colonel Everard down there in Navan
growing tobacco. Where would you find anywhere the like of Irish bacon? growing tobacco. Where would you find anywhere the like of Irish bacon?
But a day of reckoning, he stated CRESCENDO with no uncertain voice, But a day of reckoning, he stated CRESCENDO with no uncertain voice,
thoroughly monopolising all the conversation, was in store for mighty thoroughly monopolising all the conversation, was in store for mighty
England, despite her power of pelf on account of her crimes. There would England, despite her power of pelf on account of her crimes. There would
be a fall and the greatest fall in history. The Germans and the Japs were be a fall and the greatest fall in history. The Germans and the Japs were
going to have their little lookin, he affirmed. The Boers were the going to have their little lookin, he affirmed. The Boers were the
beginning of the end. Brummagem England was toppling already and her beginning of the end. Brummagem England was toppling already and her
downfall would be Ireland, her Achilles heel, which he explained to them downfall would be Ireland, her Achilles heel, which he explained to them
about the vulnerable point of Achilles, the Greek hero, a point his about the vulnerable point of Achilles, the Greek hero, a point his
auditors at once seized as he completely gripped their attention by auditors at once seized as he completely gripped their attention by
showing the tendon referred to on his boot. His advice to every Irishman showing the tendon referred to on his boot. His advice to every Irishman
was: stay in the land of your birth and work for Ireland and live for was: stay in the land of your birth and work for Ireland and live for
Ireland. Ireland, Parnell said, could not spare a single one of her sons. Ireland. Ireland, Parnell said, could not spare a single one of her sons.
Silence all round marked the termination of his FINALE. The impervious Silence all round marked the termination of his FINALE. The impervious
navigator heard these lurid tidings, undismayed. navigator heard these lurid tidings, undismayed.
--Take a bit of doing, boss, retaliated that rough diamond palpably a bit --Take a bit of doing, boss, retaliated that rough diamond palpably a bit
peeved in response to the foregoing truism. peeved in response to the foregoing truism.
To which cold douche referring to downfall and so on the keeper concurred To which cold douche referring to downfall and so on the keeper concurred
but nevertheless held to his main view. but nevertheless held to his main view.
--Who's the best troops in the army? the grizzled old veteran irately --Who's the best troops in the army? the grizzled old veteran irately
interrogated. And the best jumpers and racers? And the best admirals and interrogated. And the best jumpers and racers? And the best admirals and
generals we've got? Tell me that. generals we've got? Tell me that.
--The Irish, for choice, retorted the cabby like Campbell, facial --The Irish, for choice, retorted the cabby like Campbell, facial
blemishes apart. blemishes apart.
--That's right, the old tarpaulin corroborated. The Irish catholic --That's right, the old tarpaulin corroborated. The Irish catholic
peasant. He's the backbone of our empire. You know Jem Mullins? peasant. He's the backbone of our empire. You know Jem Mullins?
While allowing him his individual opinions as everyman the keeper added While allowing him his individual opinions as everyman the keeper added
he cared nothing for any empire, ours or his, and considered no Irishman he cared nothing for any empire, ours or his, and considered no Irishman
worthy of his salt that served it. Then they began to have a few worthy of his salt that served it. Then they began to have a few
irascible words when it waxed hotter, both, needless to say, appealing to irascible words when it waxed hotter, both, needless to say, appealing to
the listeners who followed the passage of arms with interest so long as the listeners who followed the passage of arms with interest so long as
they didn't indulge in recriminations and come to blows. they didn't indulge in recriminations and come to blows.
From inside information extending over a series of years Mr Bloom was From inside information extending over a series of years Mr Bloom was
rather inclined to poohpooh the suggestion as egregious balderdash for, rather inclined to poohpooh the suggestion as egregious balderdash for,
pending that consummation devoutly to be or not to be wished for, he was pending that consummation devoutly to be or not to be wished for, he was
fully cognisant of the fact that their neighbours across the channel, fully cognisant of the fact that their neighbours across the channel,
unless they were much bigger fools than he took them for, rather unless they were much bigger fools than he took them for, rather
concealed their strength than the opposite. It was quite on a par with concealed their strength than the opposite. It was quite on a par with
the quixotic idea in certain quarters that in a hundred million years the the quixotic idea in certain quarters that in a hundred million years the
coal seam of the sister island would be played out and if, as time went coal seam of the sister island would be played out and if, as time went
on, that turned out to be how the cat jumped all he could personally say on, that turned out to be how the cat jumped all he could personally say
on the matter was that as a host of contingencies, equally relevant to on the matter was that as a host of contingencies, equally relevant to
the issue, might occur ere then it was highly advisable in the interim to the issue, might occur ere then it was highly advisable in the interim to
try to make the most of both countries even though poles apart. Another try to make the most of both countries even though poles apart. Another
little interesting point, the amours of whores and chummies, to put it in little interesting point, the amours of whores and chummies, to put it in
common parlance, reminded him Irish soldiers had as often fought for common parlance, reminded him Irish soldiers had as often fought for
England as against her, more so, in fact. And now, why? So the scene England as against her, more so, in fact. And now, why? So the scene
between the pair of them, the licensee of the place rumoured to be or between the pair of them, the licensee of the place rumoured to be or
have been Fitzharris, the famous invincible, and the other, obviously have been Fitzharris, the famous invincible, and the other, obviously
bogus, reminded him forcibly as being on all fours with the confidence bogus, reminded him forcibly as being on all fours with the confidence
trick, supposing, that is, it was prearranged as the lookeron, a student trick, supposing, that is, it was prearranged as the lookeron, a student
of the human soul if anything, the others seeing least of the game. And of the human soul if anything, the others seeing least of the game. And
as for the lessee or keeper, who probably wasn't the other person at all, as for the lessee or keeper, who probably wasn't the other person at all,
he (B.) couldn't help feeling and most properly it was better to give he (B.) couldn't help feeling and most properly it was better to give
people like that the goby unless you were a blithering idiot altogether people like that the goby unless you were a blithering idiot altogether
and refuse to have anything to do with them as a golden rule in private and refuse to have anything to do with them as a golden rule in private
life and their felonsetting, there always being the offchance of a life and their felonsetting, there always being the offchance of a
Dannyman coming forward and turning queen's evidence or king's now like Dannyman coming forward and turning queen's evidence or king's now like
Denis or Peter Carey, an idea he utterly repudiated. Quite apart from Denis or Peter Carey, an idea he utterly repudiated. Quite apart from
that he disliked those careers of wrongdoing and crime on principle. Yet, that he disliked those careers of wrongdoing and crime on principle. Yet,
though such criminal propensities had never been an inmate of his bosom though such criminal propensities had never been an inmate of his bosom
in any shape or form, he certainly did feel and no denying it (while in any shape or form, he certainly did feel and no denying it (while
inwardly remaining what he was) a certain kind of admiration for a man inwardly remaining what he was) a certain kind of admiration for a man
who had actually brandished a knife, cold steel, with the courage of his who had actually brandished a knife, cold steel, with the courage of his
political convictions (though, personally, he would never be a party to political convictions (though, personally, he would never be a party to
any such thing), off the same bat as those love vendettas of the south, any such thing), off the same bat as those love vendettas of the south,
have her or swing for her, when the husband frequently, after some words have her or swing for her, when the husband frequently, after some words
passed between the two concerning her relations with the other lucky passed between the two concerning her relations with the other lucky
mortal (he having had the pair watched), inflicted fatal injuries on his mortal (he having had the pair watched), inflicted fatal injuries on his
adored one as a result of an alternative postnuptial LIAISON by plunging adored one as a result of an alternative postnuptial LIAISON by plunging
his knife into her, until it just struck him that Fitz, nicknamed Skin- his knife into her, until it just struck him that Fitz, nicknamed Skin-
the-Goat, merely drove the car for the actual perpetrators of the outrage the-Goat, merely drove the car for the actual perpetrators of the outrage
and so was not, if he was reliably informed, actually party to the ambush and so was not, if he was reliably informed, actually party to the ambush
which, in point of fact, was the plea some legal luminary saved his skin which, in point of fact, was the plea some legal luminary saved his skin
on. In any case that was very ancient history by now and as for our on. In any case that was very ancient history by now and as for our
friend, the pseudo Skin-the-etcetera, he had transparently outlived his friend, the pseudo Skin-the-etcetera, he had transparently outlived his
welcome. He ought to have either died naturally or on the scaffold high. welcome. He ought to have either died naturally or on the scaffold high.
Like actresses, always farewell positively last performance then come up Like actresses, always farewell positively last performance then come up
smiling again. Generous to a fault of course, temperamental, no smiling again. Generous to a fault of course, temperamental, no
economising or any idea of the sort, always snapping at the bone for the economising or any idea of the sort, always snapping at the bone for the
shadow. So similarly he had a very shrewd suspicion that Mr Johnny Lever shadow. So similarly he had a very shrewd suspicion that Mr Johnny Lever
got rid of some l s d. in the course of his perambulations round the got rid of some l s d. in the course of his perambulations round the
docks in the congenial atmosphere of the OLD IRELAND tavern, come back to docks in the congenial atmosphere of the OLD IRELAND tavern, come back to
Erin and so on. Then as for the other he had heard not so long before the Erin and so on. Then as for the other he had heard not so long before the
same identical lingo as he told Stephen how he simply but effectually same identical lingo as he told Stephen how he simply but effectually
silenced the offender. silenced the offender.
--He took umbrage at something or other, that muchinjured but on the --He took umbrage at something or other, that muchinjured but on the
whole eventempered person declared, I let slip. He called me a jew and in whole eventempered person declared, I let slip. He called me a jew and in
a heated fashion offensively. So I without deviating from plain facts in a heated fashion offensively. So I without deviating from plain facts in
the least told him his God, I mean Christ, was a jew too and all his the least told him his God, I mean Christ, was a jew too and all his
family like me though in reality I'm not. That was one for him. A soft family like me though in reality I'm not. That was one for him. A soft
answer turns away wrath. He hadn't a word to say for himself as everyone answer turns away wrath. He hadn't a word to say for himself as everyone
saw. Am I not right? saw. Am I not right?
 He turned a long you are wrong gaze on Stephen of timorous dark pride at  He turned a long you are wrong gaze on Stephen of timorous dark pride at
the soft impeachment with a glance also of entreaty for he seemed to the soft impeachment with a glance also of entreaty for he seemed to
glean in a kind of a way that it wasn't all exactly. glean in a kind of a way that it wasn't all exactly.
--EX QUIBUS, Stephen mumbled in a noncommittal accent, their two or four --EX QUIBUS, Stephen mumbled in a noncommittal accent, their two or four
eyes conversing, CHRISTUS or Bloom his name is or after all any other, eyes conversing, CHRISTUS or Bloom his name is or after all any other,
SECUNDUM CARNEM. SECUNDUM CARNEM.
--Of course, Mr B. proceeded to stipulate, you must look at both sides of --Of course, Mr B. proceeded to stipulate, you must look at both sides of
the question. It is hard to lay down any hard and fast rules as to right the question. It is hard to lay down any hard and fast rules as to right
and wrong but room for improvement all round there certainly is though and wrong but room for improvement all round there certainly is though
every country, they say, our own distressful included, has the government every country, they say, our own distressful included, has the government
it deserves. But with a little goodwill all round. It's all very fine to it deserves. But with a little goodwill all round. It's all very fine to
boast of mutual superiority but what about mutual equality. I resent boast of mutual superiority but what about mutual equality. I resent
violence and intolerance in any shape or form. It never reaches anything violence and intolerance in any shape or form. It never reaches anything
or stops anything. A revolution must come on the due instalments plan. or stops anything. A revolution must come on the due instalments plan.
It's a patent absurdity on the face of it to hate people because they It's a patent absurdity on the face of it to hate people because they
live round the corner and speak another vernacular, in the next house so live round the corner and speak another vernacular, in the next house so
to speak. to speak.
--Memorable bloody bridge battle and seven minutes' war, Stephen --Memorable bloody bridge battle and seven minutes' war, Stephen
assented, between Skinner's alley and Ormond market. assented, between Skinner's alley and Ormond market.
Yes, Mr Bloom thoroughly agreed, entirely endorsing the remark, that was Yes, Mr Bloom thoroughly agreed, entirely endorsing the remark, that was
overwhelmingly right. And the whole world was full of that sort of thing. overwhelmingly right. And the whole world was full of that sort of thing.
--You just took the words out of my mouth, he said. A hocuspocus of --You just took the words out of my mouth, he said. A hocuspocus of
conflicting evidence that candidly you couldn't remotely ... conflicting evidence that candidly you couldn't remotely ...
All those wretched quarrels, in his humble opinion, stirring up bad All those wretched quarrels, in his humble opinion, stirring up bad
blood, from some bump of combativeness or gland of some kind, erroneously blood, from some bump of combativeness or gland of some kind, erroneously
supposed to be about a punctilio of honour and a flag, were very largely supposed to be about a punctilio of honour and a flag, were very largely
a question of the money question which was at the back of everything a question of the money question which was at the back of everything
greed and jealousy, people never knowing when to stop. greed and jealousy, people never knowing when to stop.
--They accuse, remarked he audibly. --They accuse, remarked he audibly.
He turned away from the others who probably and spoke nearer to, so as He turned away from the others who probably and spoke nearer to, so as
the others in case they. the others in case they.
his satchel. He recited jerks of verse with odd glances at the text: his satchel. He recited jerks of verse with odd glances at the text:
  --WEEP NO MORE, WOFUL SHEPHERDS, WEEP NO MORE   --WEEP NO MORE, WOFUL SHEPHERDS, WEEP NO MORE
    FOR LYCIDAS, YOUR SORROW, IS NOT DEAD,     FOR LYCIDAS, YOUR SORROW, IS NOT DEAD,
    SUNK THOUGH HE BE BENEATH THE WATERY FLOOR ...     SUNK THOUGH HE BE BENEATH THE WATERY FLOOR ...
It must be a movement then, an actuality of the possible as possible. It must be a movement then, an actuality of the possible as possible.
Aristotle's phrase formed itself within the gabbled verses and floated Aristotle's phrase formed itself within the gabbled verses and floated
out into the studious silence of the library of Saint Genevieve where he out into the studious silence of the library of Saint Genevieve where he
had read, sheltered from the sin of Paris, night by night. By his elbow a had read, sheltered from the sin of Paris, night by night. By his elbow a
delicate Siamese conned a handbook of strategy. Fed and feeding brains delicate Siamese conned a handbook of strategy. Fed and feeding brains
about me: under glowlamps, impaled, with faintly beating feelers: and in about me: under glowlamps, impaled, with faintly beating feelers: and in
my mind's darkness a sloth of the underworld, reluctant, shy of my mind's darkness a sloth of the underworld, reluctant, shy of
brightness, shifting her dragon scaly folds. Thought is the thought of brightness, shifting her dragon scaly folds. Thought is the thought of
thought. Tranquil brightness. The soul is in a manner all that is: the thought. Tranquil brightness. The soul is in a manner all that is: the
soul is the form of forms. Tranquility sudden, vast, candescent: form of soul is the form of forms. Tranquility sudden, vast, candescent: form of
forms. forms.
Talbot repeated: Talbot repeated:
  --THROUGH THE DEAR MIGHT OF HIM THAT WALKED THE WAVES,   --THROUGH THE DEAR MIGHT OF HIM THAT WALKED THE WAVES,
    THROUGH THE DEAR MIGHT ...     THROUGH THE DEAR MIGHT ...
--Turn over, Stephen said quietly. I don't see anything. --Turn over, Stephen said quietly. I don't see anything.
--What, sir? Talbot asked simply, bending forward. --What, sir? Talbot asked simply, bending forward.
His hand turned the page over. He leaned back and went on again, His hand turned the page over. He leaned back and went on again,
having just remembered. Of him that walked the waves. Here also over having just remembered. Of him that walked the waves. Here also over
these craven hearts his shadow lies and on the scoffer's heart and lips these craven hearts his shadow lies and on the scoffer's heart and lips
and on mine. It lies upon their eager faces who offered him a coin of the and on mine. It lies upon their eager faces who offered him a coin of the
tribute. To Caesar what is Caesar's, to God what is God's. A long look tribute. To Caesar what is Caesar's, to God what is God's. A long look
from dark eyes, a riddling sentence to be woven and woven on the church's from dark eyes, a riddling sentence to be woven and woven on the church's
looms. Ay. looms. Ay.
    RIDDLE ME, RIDDLE ME, RANDY RO.     RIDDLE ME, RIDDLE ME, RANDY RO.
    MY FATHER GAVE ME SEEDS TO SOW.     MY FATHER GAVE ME SEEDS TO SOW.
Talbot slid his closed book into his satchel. Talbot slid his closed book into his satchel.
--Have I heard all? Stephen asked. --Have I heard all? Stephen asked.
--Yes, sir. Hockey at ten, sir. --Yes, sir. Hockey at ten, sir.
--Half day, sir. Thursday. --Half day, sir. Thursday.
--Who can answer a riddle? Stephen asked. --Who can answer a riddle? Stephen asked.
They bundled their books away, pencils clacking, pages rustling. They bundled their books away, pencils clacking, pages rustling.
Crowding together they strapped and buckled their satchels, all gabbling Crowding together they strapped and buckled their satchels, all gabbling
gaily: gaily:
--A riddle, sir? Ask me, sir. --A riddle, sir? Ask me, sir.
--O, ask me, sir. --O, ask me, sir.
--A hard one, sir. --A hard one, sir.
--This is the riddle, Stephen said: --This is the riddle, Stephen said:
    THE COCK CREW,     THE COCK CREW,
    THE SKY WAS BLUE:     THE SKY WAS BLUE:
    THE BELLS IN HEAVEN     THE BELLS IN HEAVEN
    WERE STRIKING ELEVEN.     WERE STRIKING ELEVEN.
    'TIS TIME FOR THIS POOR SOUL     'TIS TIME FOR THIS POOR SOUL
    TO GO TO HEAVEN.     TO GO TO HEAVEN.
What is that? What is that?
--What, sir? --What, sir?
--Again, sir. We didn't hear. --Again, sir. We didn't hear.
Their eyes grew bigger as the lines were repeated. After a silence Their eyes grew bigger as the lines were repeated. After a silence
Cochrane said: Cochrane said:
--What is it, sir? We give it up. --What is it, sir? We give it up.
Stephen, his throat itching, answered: Stephen, his throat itching, answered:
--The fox burying his grandmother under a hollybush. --The fox burying his grandmother under a hollybush.
He stood up and gave a shout of nervous laughter to which their cries He stood up and gave a shout of nervous laughter to which their cries
echoed dismay. echoed dismay.
A stick struck the door and a voice in the corridor called: A stick struck the door and a voice in the corridor called:
--Hockey! --Hockey!
They broke asunder, sidling out of their benches, leaping them. They broke asunder, sidling out of their benches, leaping them.
Quickly they were gone and from the lumberroom came the rattle of sticks Quickly they were gone and from the lumberroom came the rattle of sticks
and clamour of their boots and tongues. and clamour of their boots and tongues.
Sargent who alone had lingered came forward slowly, showing an Sargent who alone had lingered came forward slowly, showing an
open copybook. His thick hair and scraggy neck gave witness of open copybook. His thick hair and scraggy neck gave witness of
unreadiness and through his misty glasses weak eyes looked up pleading. unreadiness and through his misty glasses weak eyes looked up pleading.
On his cheek, dull and bloodless, a soft stain of ink lay, dateshaped, On his cheek, dull and bloodless, a soft stain of ink lay, dateshaped,
recent and damp as a snail's bed. recent and damp as a snail's bed.
He held out his copybook. The word SUMS was written on the He held out his copybook. The word SUMS was written on the
headline. Beneath were sloping figures and at the foot a crooked signature headline. Beneath were sloping figures and at the foot a crooked signature
with blind loops and a blot. Cyril Sargent: his name and seal. with blind loops and a blot. Cyril Sargent: his name and seal.
--Mr Deasy told me to write them out all again, he said, and show them to --Mr Deasy told me to write them out all again, he said, and show them to
you, sir. you, sir.
Stephen touched the edges of the book. Futility. Stephen touched the edges of the book. Futility.
--Do you understand how to do them now? he asked. --Do you understand how to do them now? he asked.
--Numbers eleven to fifteen, Sargent answered. Mr Deasy said I was to --Numbers eleven to fifteen, Sargent answered. Mr Deasy said I was to
copy them off the board, sir. copy them off the board, sir.
--Can you do them. yourself? Stephen asked. --Can you do them. yourself? Stephen asked.
--No, sir. --No, sir.
Ugly and futile: lean neck and thick hair and a stain of ink, a snail's Ugly and futile: lean neck and thick hair and a stain of ink, a snail's
bed. Yet someone had loved him, borne him in her arms and in her heart. bed. Yet someone had loved him, borne him in her arms and in her heart.
But for her the race of the world would have trampled him underfoot, a But for her the race of the world would have trampled him underfoot, a
squashed boneless snail. She had loved his weak watery blood drained from squashed boneless snail. She had loved his weak watery blood drained from
her own. Was that then real? The only true thing in life? His mother's her own. Was that then real? The only true thing in life? His mother's
prostrate body the fiery Columbanus in holy zeal bestrode. She was no prostrate body the fiery Columbanus in holy zeal bestrode. She was no
more: the trembling skeleton of a twig burnt in the fire, an odour of more: the trembling skeleton of a twig burnt in the fire, an odour of
rosewood and wetted ashes. She had saved him from being trampled rosewood and wetted ashes. She had saved him from being trampled
underfoot and had gone, scarcely having been. A poor soul gone to heaven: underfoot and had gone, scarcely having been. A poor soul gone to heaven:
and on a heath beneath winking stars a fox, red reek of rapine in his fur, and on a heath beneath winking stars a fox, red reek of rapine in his fur,
with merciless bright eyes scraped in the earth, listened, scraped up the with merciless bright eyes scraped in the earth, listened, scraped up the
earth, listened, scraped and scraped. earth, listened, scraped and scraped.
Sitting at his side Stephen solved out the problem. He proves by Sitting at his side Stephen solved out the problem. He proves by
algebra that Shakespeare's ghost is Hamlet's grandfather. Sargent peered algebra that Shakespeare's ghost is Hamlet's grandfather. Sargent peered
askance through his slanted glasses. Hockeysticks rattled in the askance through his slanted glasses. Hockeysticks rattled in the
lumberroom: the hollow knock of a ball and calls from the field. lumberroom: the hollow knock of a ball and calls from the field.
Across the page the symbols moved in grave morrice, in the mummery Across the page the symbols moved in grave morrice, in the mummery
of their letters, wearing quaint caps of squares and cubes. Give hands, of their letters, wearing quaint caps of squares and cubes. Give hands,
traverse, bow to partner: so: imps of fancy of the Moors. Gone too from traverse, bow to partner: so: imps of fancy of the Moors. Gone too from
the world, Averroes and Moses Maimonides, dark men in mien and the world, Averroes and Moses Maimonides, dark men in mien and
movement, flashing in their mocking mirrors the obscure soul of the movement, flashing in their mocking mirrors the obscure soul of the
world, a darkness shining in brightness which brightness could not world, a darkness shining in brightness which brightness could not
comprehend. comprehend.
--Do you understand now? Can you work the second for yourself? --Do you understand now? Can you work the second for yourself?
--Yes, sir. --Yes, sir.
In long shaky strokes Sargent copied the data. Waiting always for a In long shaky strokes Sargent copied the data. Waiting always for a
word of help his hand moved faithfully the unsteady symbols, a faint hue word of help his hand moved faithfully the unsteady symbols, a faint hue
of shame flickering behind his dull skin. AMOR MATRIS: subjective and of shame flickering behind his dull skin. AMOR MATRIS: subjective and
objective genitive. With her weak blood and wheysour milk she had fed him objective genitive. With her weak blood and wheysour milk she had fed him
and hid from sight of others his swaddling bands. and hid from sight of others his swaddling bands.
Like him was I, these sloping shoulders, this gracelessness. My Like him was I, these sloping shoulders, this gracelessness. My
childhood bends beside me. Too far for me to lay a hand there once or childhood bends beside me. Too far for me to lay a hand there once or
lightly. Mine is far and his secret as our eyes. Secrets, silent, stony lightly. Mine is far and his secret as our eyes. Secrets, silent, stony
sit in the dark palaces of both our hearts: secrets weary of their sit in the dark palaces of both our hearts: secrets weary of their
tyranny: tyrants, willing to be dethroned. tyranny: tyrants, willing to be dethroned.
The sum was done. The sum was done.
--It is very simple, Stephen said as he stood up. --It is very simple, Stephen said as he stood up.
--Yes, sir. Thanks, Sargent answered. --Yes, sir. Thanks, Sargent answered.
He dried the page with a sheet of thin blottingpaper and carried his He dried the page with a sheet of thin blottingpaper and carried his
copybook back to his bench. copybook back to his bench.
--You had better get your stick and go out to the others, Stephen said as --You had better get your stick and go out to the others, Stephen said as
he followed towards the door the boy's graceless form. he followed towards the door the boy's graceless form.
--Yes, sir. --Yes, sir.
In the corridor his name was heard, called from the playfield. In the corridor his name was heard, called from the playfield.
--Sargent! --Sargent!
--Run on, Stephen said. Mr Deasy is calling you. --Run on, Stephen said. Mr Deasy is calling you.
He stood in the porch and watched the laggard hurry towards the He stood in the porch and watched the laggard hurry towards the
scrappy field where sharp voices were in strife. They were sorted in teams scrappy field where sharp voices were in strife. They were sorted in teams
and Mr Deasy came away stepping over wisps of grass with gaitered feet. and Mr Deasy came away stepping over wisps of grass with gaitered feet.
When he had reached the schoolhouse voices again contending called to When he had reached the schoolhouse voices again contending called to
him. He turned his angry white moustache. him. He turned his angry white moustache.
--What is it now? he cried continually without listening. --What is it now? he cried continually without listening.
--Cochrane and Halliday are on the same side, sir, Stephen said. --Cochrane and Halliday are on the same side, sir, Stephen said.
--Will you wait in my study for a moment, Mr Deasy said, till I restore --Will you wait in my study for a moment, Mr Deasy said, till I restore
order here. order here.
And as he stepped fussily back across the field his old man's voice And as he stepped fussily back across the field his old man's voice
cried sternly: cried sternly:
--What is the matter? What is it now? --What is the matter? What is it now?
Their sharp voices cried about him on all sides: their many forms Their sharp voices cried about him on all sides: their many forms
closed round him, the garish sunshine bleaching the honey of his illdyed closed round him, the garish sunshine bleaching the honey of his illdyed
head. head.
Stale smoky air hung in the study with the smell of drab abraded Stale smoky air hung in the study with the smell of drab abraded
leather of its chairs. As on the first day he bargained with me here. As leather of its chairs. As on the first day he bargained with me here. As
it was in the beginning, is now. On the sideboard the tray of Stuart it was in the beginning, is now. On the sideboard the tray of Stuart
coins, base treasure of a bog: and ever shall be. And snug in their coins, base treasure of a bog: and ever shall be. And snug in their
spooncase of purple plush, faded, the twelve apostles having preached to spooncase of purple plush, faded, the twelve apostles having preached to
all the gentiles: world without end. all the gentiles: world without end.
A hasty step over the stone porch and in the corridor. Blowing out his A hasty step over the stone porch and in the corridor. Blowing out his
rare moustache Mr Deasy halted at the table. rare moustache Mr Deasy halted at the table.
--First, our little financial settlement, he said. --First, our little financial settlement, he said.
He brought out of his coat a pocketbook bound by a leather thong. It He brought out of his coat a pocketbook bound by a leather thong. It
slapped open and he took from it two notes, one of joined halves, and laid slapped open and he took from it two notes, one of joined halves, and laid
them carefully on the table. them carefully on the table.
--Two, he said, strapping and stowing his pocketbook away. --Two, he said, strapping and stowing his pocketbook away.
And now his strongroom for the gold. Stephen's embarrassed hand And now his strongroom for the gold. Stephen's embarrassed hand
moved over the shells heaped in the cold stone mortar: whelks and money moved over the shells heaped in the cold stone mortar: whelks and money
cowries and leopard shells: and this, whorled as an emir's turban, and cowries and leopard shells: and this, whorled as an emir's turban, and
this, the scallop of saint James. An old pilgrim's hoard, dead treasure, this, the scallop of saint James. An old pilgrim's hoard, dead treasure,
hollow shells. hollow shells.
A sovereign fell, bright and new, on the soft pile of the tablecloth. A sovereign fell, bright and new, on the soft pile of the tablecloth.
--Three, Mr Deasy said, turning his little savingsbox about in his hand. --Three, Mr Deasy said, turning his little savingsbox about in his hand.
These are handy things to have. See. This is for sovereigns. This is for These are handy things to have. See. This is for sovereigns. This is for
shillings. Sixpences, halfcrowns. And here crowns. See. shillings. Sixpences, halfcrowns. And here crowns. See.
He shot from it two crowns and two shillings. He shot from it two crowns and two shillings.
--Three twelve, he said. I think you'll find that's right. --Three twelve, he said. I think you'll find that's right.
--Thank you, sir, Stephen said, gathering the money together with shy --Thank you, sir, Stephen said, gathering the money together with shy
haste and putting it all in a pocket of his trousers. haste and putting it all in a pocket of his trousers.
--No thanks at all, Mr Deasy said. You have earned it. --No thanks at all, Mr Deasy said. You have earned it.
Stephen's hand, free again, went back to the hollow shells. Symbols Stephen's hand, free again, went back to the hollow shells. Symbols
too of beauty and of power. A lump in my pocket: symbols soiled by greed too of beauty and of power. A lump in my pocket: symbols soiled by greed
and misery. and misery.
--Don't carry it like that, Mr Deasy said. You'll pull it out somewhere --Don't carry it like that, Mr Deasy said. You'll pull it out somewhere
and lose it. You just buy one of these machines. You'll find them very and lose it. You just buy one of these machines. You'll find them very
handy. handy.
Answer something. Answer something.
--Mine would be often empty, Stephen said. --Mine would be often empty, Stephen said.
The same room and hour, the same wisdom: and I the same. Three The same room and hour, the same wisdom: and I the same. Three
times now. Three nooses round me here. Well? I can break them in this times now. Three nooses round me here. Well? I can break them in this
instant if I will. instant if I will.
--Because you don't save, Mr Deasy said, pointing his finger. You don't --Because you don't save, Mr Deasy said, pointing his finger. You don't
know yet what money is. Money is power. When you have lived as long as I know yet what money is. Money is power. When you have lived as long as I
have. I know, I know. If youth but knew. But what does Shakespeare say? have. I know, I know. If youth but knew. But what does Shakespeare say?
PUT BUT MONEY IN THY PURSE. PUT BUT MONEY IN THY PURSE.
--Iago, Stephen murmured. --Iago, Stephen murmured.
He lifted his gaze from the idle shells to the old man's stare. He lifted his gaze from the idle shells to the old man's stare.
--He knew what money was, Mr Deasy said. He made money. A poet, yes, --He knew what money was, Mr Deasy said. He made money. A poet, yes,
but an Englishman too. Do you know what is the pride of the English? Do but an Englishman too. Do you know what is the pride of the English? Do
you know what is the proudest word you will ever hear from an you know what is the proudest word you will ever hear from an
Englishman's mouth? Englishman's mouth?
The seas' ruler. His seacold eyes looked on the empty bay: it seems The seas' ruler. His seacold eyes looked on the empty bay: it seems
history is to blame: on me and on my words, unhating. history is to blame: on me and on my words, unhating.
--That on his empire, Stephen said, the sun never sets. --That on his empire, Stephen said, the sun never sets.
--Ba! Mr Deasy cried. That's not English. A French Celt said that. He --Ba! Mr Deasy cried. That's not English. A French Celt said that. He
tapped his savingsbox against his thumbnail. tapped his savingsbox against his thumbnail.
--I will tell you, he said solemnly, what is his proudest boast. I PAID --I will tell you, he said solemnly, what is his proudest boast. I PAID
MY WAY. MY WAY.
Good man, good man. Good man, good man.
--I PAID MY WAY. I NEVER BORROWED A SHILLING IN MY LIFE. Can you feel --I PAID MY WAY. I NEVER BORROWED A SHILLING IN MY LIFE. Can you feel
that? I OWE NOTHING. Can you? that? I OWE NOTHING. Can you?
Mulligan, nine pounds, three pairs of socks, one pair brogues, ties. Mulligan, nine pounds, three pairs of socks, one pair brogues, ties.
Curran, ten guineas. McCann, one guinea. Fred Ryan, two shillings. Curran, ten guineas. McCann, one guinea. Fred Ryan, two shillings.
Temple, two lunches. Russell, one guinea, Cousins, ten shillings, Bob Temple, two lunches. Russell, one guinea, Cousins, ten shillings, Bob
Reynolds, half a guinea, Koehler, three guineas, Mrs MacKernan, five Reynolds, half a guinea, Koehler, three guineas, Mrs MacKernan, five
weeks' board. The lump I have is useless. weeks' board. The lump I have is useless.
--For the moment, no, Stephen answered. --For the moment, no, Stephen answered.
Mr Deasy laughed with rich delight, putting back his savingsbox. Mr Deasy laughed with rich delight, putting back his savingsbox.
--I knew you couldn't, he said joyously. But one day you must feel it. We --I knew you couldn't, he said joyously. But one day you must feel it. We
are a generous people but we must also be just. are a generous people but we must also be just.
--I fear those big words, Stephen said, which make us so unhappy. --I fear those big words, Stephen said, which make us so unhappy.
Mr Deasy stared sternly for some moments over the mantelpiece at Mr Deasy stared sternly for some moments over the mantelpiece at
the shapely bulk of a man in tartan filibegs: Albert Edward, prince of the shapely bulk of a man in tartan filibegs: Albert Edward, prince of
Wales. Wales.
--You think me an old fogey and an old tory, his thoughtful voice said. I --You think me an old fogey and an old tory, his thoughtful voice said. I
saw three generations since O'Connell's time. I remember the famine saw three generations since O'Connell's time. I remember the famine
in '46. Do you know that the orange lodges agitated for repeal of the in '46. Do you know that the orange lodges agitated for repeal of the
union twenty years before O'Connell did or before the prelates of your union twenty years before O'Connell did or before the prelates of your
communion denounced him as a demagogue? You fenians forget some things. communion denounced him as a demagogue? You fenians forget some things.
Glorious, pious and immortal memory. The lodge of Diamond in Glorious, pious and immortal memory. The lodge of Diamond in
Armagh the splendid behung with corpses of papishes. Hoarse, masked and Armagh the splendid behung with corpses of papishes. Hoarse, masked and
armed, the planters' covenant. The black north and true blue bible. armed, the planters' covenant. The black north and true blue bible.
Croppies lie down. Croppies lie down.
Stephen sketched a brief gesture. Stephen sketched a brief gesture.
--I have rebel blood in me too, Mr Deasy said. On the spindle side. But I --I have rebel blood in me too, Mr Deasy said. On the spindle side. But I
am descended from sir John Blackwood who voted for the union. We are all am descended from sir John Blackwood who voted for the union. We are all
Irish, all kings' sons. Irish, all kings' sons.
--Alas, Stephen said. --Alas, Stephen said.
--PER VIAS RECTAS, Mr Deasy said firmly, was his motto. He voted for it --PER VIAS RECTAS, Mr Deasy said firmly, was his motto. He voted for it
and put on his topboots to ride to Dublin from the Ards of Down to do so. and put on his topboots to ride to Dublin from the Ards of Down to do so.
    LAL THE RAL THE RA     LAL THE RAL THE RA
    THE ROCKY ROAD TO DUBLIN.     THE ROCKY ROAD TO DUBLIN.
A gruff squire on horseback with shiny topboots. Soft day, sir John! A gruff squire on horseback with shiny topboots. Soft day, sir John!
Soft day, your honour! ... Day! ... Day! ... Two topboots jog dangling Soft day, your honour! ... Day! ... Day! ... Two topboots jog dangling
on to Dublin. Lal the ral the ra. Lal the ral the raddy. on to Dublin. Lal the ral the ra. Lal the ral the raddy.
--That reminds me, Mr Deasy said. You can do me a favour, Mr Dedalus, --That reminds me, Mr Deasy said. You can do me a favour, Mr Dedalus,
with some of your literary friends. I have a letter here for the press. with some of your literary friends. I have a letter here for the press.
Sit down a moment. I have just to copy the end. Sit down a moment. I have just to copy the end.
He went to the desk near the window, pulled in his chair twice and He went to the desk near the window, pulled in his chair twice and
read off some words from the sheet on the drum of his typewriter. read off some words from the sheet on the drum of his typewriter.
--Sit down. Excuse me, he said over his shoulder, THE DICTATES OF COMMON --Sit down. Excuse me, he said over his shoulder, THE DICTATES OF COMMON
SENSE. Just a moment. SENSE. Just a moment.
He peered from under his shaggy brows at the manuscript by his He peered from under his shaggy brows at the manuscript by his
elbow and, muttering, began to prod the stiff buttons of the keyboard elbow and, muttering, began to prod the stiff buttons of the keyboard
slowly, sometimes blowing as he screwed up the drum to erase an error. slowly, sometimes blowing as he screwed up the drum to erase an error.
Stephen seated himself noiselessly before the princely presence. Stephen seated himself noiselessly before the princely presence.
Framed around the walls images of vanished horses stood in homage, their Framed around the walls images of vanished horses stood in homage, their
meek heads poised in air: lord Hastings' Repulse, the duke of meek heads poised in air: lord Hastings' Repulse, the duke of
Westminster's Shotover, the duke of Beaufort's Ceylon, PRIX DE PARIS, Westminster's Shotover, the duke of Beaufort's Ceylon, PRIX DE PARIS,
1866. Elfin riders sat them, watchful of a sign. He saw their speeds, 1866. Elfin riders sat them, watchful of a sign. He saw their speeds,
backing king's colours, and shouted with the shouts of vanished crowds. backing king's colours, and shouted with the shouts of vanished crowds.
--Full stop, Mr Deasy bade his keys. But prompt ventilation of this --Full stop, Mr Deasy bade his keys. But prompt ventilation of this
allimportant question ... allimportant question ...
Where Cranly led me to get rich quick, hunting his winners among Where Cranly led me to get rich quick, hunting his winners among
the mudsplashed brakes, amid the bawls of bookies on their pitches and the mudsplashed brakes, amid the bawls of bookies on their pitches and
reek of the canteen, over the motley slush. Fair Rebel! Fair Rebel! Even reek of the canteen, over the motley slush. Fair Rebel! Fair Rebel! Even
money the favourite: ten to one the field. Dicers and thimbleriggers we money the favourite: ten to one the field. Dicers and thimbleriggers we
hurried by after the hoofs, the vying caps and jackets and past the hurried by after the hoofs, the vying caps and jackets and past the
meatfaced woman, a butcher's dame, nuzzling thirstily her clove of orange. meatfaced woman, a butcher's dame, nuzzling thirstily her clove of orange.
Shouts rang shrill from the boys' playfield and a whirring whistle. Shouts rang shrill from the boys' playfield and a whirring whistle.
Again: a goal. I am among them, among their battling bodies in a Again: a goal. I am among them, among their battling bodies in a
medley, the joust of life. You mean that knockkneed mother's darling who medley, the joust of life. You mean that knockkneed mother's darling who
seems to be slightly crawsick? Jousts. Time shocked rebounds, shock by seems to be slightly crawsick? Jousts. Time shocked rebounds, shock by
shock. Jousts, slush and uproar of battles, the frozen deathspew of the shock. Jousts, slush and uproar of battles, the frozen deathspew of the
slain, a shout of spearspikes baited with men's bloodied guts. slain, a shout of spearspikes baited with men's bloodied guts.
--Now then, Mr Deasy said, rising. --Now then, Mr Deasy said, rising.
He came to the table, pinning together his sheets. Stephen stood up. He came to the table, pinning together his sheets. Stephen stood up.
--I have put the matter into a nutshell, Mr Deasy said. It's about the --I have put the matter into a nutshell, Mr Deasy said. It's about the
foot and mouth disease. Just look through it. There can be no two opinions foot and mouth disease. Just look through it. There can be no two opinions
on the matter. on the matter.
May I trespass on your valuable space. That doctrine of LAISSEZ FAIRE May I trespass on your valuable space. That doctrine of LAISSEZ FAIRE
which so often in our history. Our cattle trade. The way of all our old which so often in our history. Our cattle trade. The way of all our old
industries. Liverpool ring which jockeyed the Galway harbour scheme. industries. Liverpool ring which jockeyed the Galway harbour scheme.
European conflagration. Grain supplies through the narrow waters of the European conflagration. Grain supplies through the narrow waters of the
channel. The pluterperfect imperturbability of the department of channel. The pluterperfect imperturbability of the department of
agriculture. Pardoned a classical allusion. Cassandra. By a woman who agriculture. Pardoned a classical allusion. Cassandra. By a woman who
was no better than she should be. To come to the point at issue. was no better than she should be. To come to the point at issue.
--I don't mince words, do I? Mr Deasy asked as Stephen read on. --I don't mince words, do I? Mr Deasy asked as Stephen read on.
Foot and mouth disease. Known as Koch's preparation. Serum and Foot and mouth disease. Known as Koch's preparation. Serum and
virus. Percentage of salted horses. Rinderpest. Emperor's horses at virus. Percentage of salted horses. Rinderpest. Emperor's horses at
Murzsteg, lower Austria. Veterinary surgeons. Mr Henry Blackwood Price. Murzsteg, lower Austria. Veterinary surgeons. Mr Henry Blackwood Price.
Courteous offer a fair trial. Dictates of common sense. Allimportant Courteous offer a fair trial. Dictates of common sense. Allimportant
question. In every sense of the word take the bull by the horns. Thanking question. In every sense of the word take the bull by the horns. Thanking
you for the hospitality of your columns. you for the hospitality of your columns.
--I want that to be printed and read, Mr Deasy said. You will see at the --I want that to be printed and read, Mr Deasy said. You will see at the
next outbreak they will put an embargo on Irish cattle. And it can be next outbreak they will put an embargo on Irish cattle. And it can be
cured. It is cured. My cousin, Blackwood Price, writes to me it is cured. It is cured. My cousin, Blackwood Price, writes to me it is
regularly treated and cured in Austria by cattledoctors there. They offer regularly treated and cured in Austria by cattledoctors there. They offer
to come over here. I am trying to work up influence with the department. to come over here. I am trying to work up influence with the department.
Now I'm going to try publicity. I am surrounded by difficulties, Now I'm going to try publicity. I am surrounded by difficulties,
by ... intrigues by ... backstairs influence by ... by ... intrigues by ... backstairs influence by ...
He raised his forefinger and beat the air oldly before his voice spoke. He raised his forefinger and beat the air oldly before his voice spoke.
--Mark my words, Mr Dedalus, he said. England is in the hands of the --Mark my words, Mr Dedalus, he said. England is in the hands of the
jews. In all the highest places: her finance, her press. And they are the jews. In all the highest places: her finance, her press. And they are the
signs of a nation's decay. Wherever they gather they eat up the nation's signs of a nation's decay. Wherever they gather they eat up the nation's
vital strength. I have seen it coming these years. As sure as we are vital strength. I have seen it coming these years. As sure as we are
standing here the jew merchants are already at their work of destruction. standing here the jew merchants are already at their work of destruction.
Old England is dying. Old England is dying.
He stepped swiftly off, his eyes coming to blue life as they passed a He stepped swiftly off, his eyes coming to blue life as they passed a
broad sunbeam. He faced about and back again. broad sunbeam. He faced about and back again.
--Dying, he said again, if not dead by now. --Dying, he said again, if not dead by now.
    THE HARLOT'S CRY FROM STREET TO STREET     THE HARLOT'S CRY FROM STREET TO STREET
    SHALL WEAVE OLD ENGLAND'S WINDINGSHEET.     SHALL WEAVE OLD ENGLAND'S WINDINGSHEET.
His eyes open wide in vision stared sternly across the sunbeam in His eyes open wide in vision stared sternly across the sunbeam in
which he halted. which he halted.
--A merchant, Stephen said, is one who buys cheap and sells dear, jew or --A merchant, Stephen said, is one who buys cheap and sells dear, jew or
gentile, is he not? gentile, is he not?
--They sinned against the light, Mr Deasy said gravely. And you can see --They sinned against the light, Mr Deasy said gravely. And you can see
the darkness in their eyes. And that is why they are wanderers on the the darkness in their eyes. And that is why they are wanderers on the
earth to this day. earth to this day.
On the steps of the Paris stock exchange the goldskinned men quoting On the steps of the Paris stock exchange the goldskinned men quoting
prices on their gemmed fingers. Gabble of geese. They swarmed loud, prices on their gemmed fingers. Gabble of geese. They swarmed loud,
uncouth about the temple, their heads thickplotting under maladroit silk uncouth about the temple, their heads thickplotting under maladroit silk
hats. Not theirs: these clothes, this speech, these gestures. Their full hats. Not theirs: these clothes, this speech, these gestures. Their full
slow eyes belied the words, the gestures eager and unoffending, but knew slow eyes belied the words, the gestures eager and unoffending, but knew
the rancours massed about them and knew their zeal was vain. Vain patience the rancours massed about them and knew their zeal was vain. Vain patience
to heap and hoard. Time surely would scatter all. A hoard heaped by the to heap and hoard. Time surely would scatter all. A hoard heaped by the
roadside: plundered and passing on. Their eyes knew their years of roadside: plundered and passing on. Their eyes knew their years of
wandering and, patient, knew the dishonours of their flesh. wandering and, patient, knew the dishonours of their flesh.
--Who has not? Stephen said. --Who has not? Stephen said.
--What do you mean? Mr Deasy asked. --What do you mean? Mr Deasy asked.
He came forward a pace and stood by the table. His underjaw fell He came forward a pace and stood by the table. His underjaw fell
sideways open uncertainly. Is this old wisdom? He waits to hear from me. sideways open uncertainly. Is this old wisdom? He waits to hear from me.
--History, Stephen said, is a nightmare from which I am trying to awake. --History, Stephen said, is a nightmare from which I am trying to awake.
From the playfield the boys raised a shout. A whirring whistle: goal. From the playfield the boys raised a shout. A whirring whistle: goal.
What if that nightmare gave you a back kick? What if that nightmare gave you a back kick?
--The ways of the Creator are not our ways, Mr Deasy said. All human --The ways of the Creator are not our ways, Mr Deasy said. All human
side of a rock or a teahouse table or a bale of cotton or a corkfloat. In side of a rock or a teahouse table or a bale of cotton or a corkfloat. In
short, he and the bull of Ireland were soon as fast friends as an arse short, he and the bull of Ireland were soon as fast friends as an arse
and a shirt. They were, says Mr Stephen, and the end was that the men of and a shirt. They were, says Mr Stephen, and the end was that the men of
the island seeing no help was toward, as the ungrate women were all of the island seeing no help was toward, as the ungrate women were all of
one mind, made a wherry raft, loaded themselves and their bundles of one mind, made a wherry raft, loaded themselves and their bundles of
chattels on shipboard, set all masts erect, manned the yards, sprang chattels on shipboard, set all masts erect, manned the yards, sprang
their luff, heaved to, spread three sheets in the wind, put her head their luff, heaved to, spread three sheets in the wind, put her head
between wind and water, weighed anchor, ported her helm, ran up the jolly between wind and water, weighed anchor, ported her helm, ran up the jolly
Roger, gave three times three, let the bullgine run, pushed off in their Roger, gave three times three, let the bullgine run, pushed off in their
bumboat and put to sea to recover the main of America. Which was the bumboat and put to sea to recover the main of America. Which was the
occasion, says Mr Vincent, of the composing by a boatswain of that occasion, says Mr Vincent, of the composing by a boatswain of that
rollicking chanty: rollicking chanty:
  --POPE PETER'S BUT A PISSABED.   --POPE PETER'S BUT A PISSABED.
    A MAN'S A MAN FOR A' THAT.     A MAN'S A MAN FOR A' THAT.
Our worthy acquaintance Mr Malachi Mulligan now appeared in the doorway Our worthy acquaintance Mr Malachi Mulligan now appeared in the doorway
as the students were finishing their apologue accompanied with a friend as the students were finishing their apologue accompanied with a friend
whom he had just rencountered, a young gentleman, his name Alec Bannon, whom he had just rencountered, a young gentleman, his name Alec Bannon,
who had late come to town, it being his intention to buy a colour or a who had late come to town, it being his intention to buy a colour or a
cornetcy in the fencibles and list for the wars. Mr Mulligan was civil cornetcy in the fencibles and list for the wars. Mr Mulligan was civil
enough to express some relish of it all the more as it jumped with a enough to express some relish of it all the more as it jumped with a
project of his own for the cure of the very evil that had been touched project of his own for the cure of the very evil that had been touched
on. Whereat he handed round to the company a set of pasteboard cards on. Whereat he handed round to the company a set of pasteboard cards
which he had had printed that day at Mr Quinnell's bearing a legend which he had had printed that day at Mr Quinnell's bearing a legend
printed in fair italics: MR MALACHI MULLIGAN. FERTILISER AND INCUBATOR. printed in fair italics: MR MALACHI MULLIGAN. FERTILISER AND INCUBATOR.
LAMBAY ISLAND. His project, as he went on to expound, was to withdraw LAMBAY ISLAND. His project, as he went on to expound, was to withdraw
from the round of idle pleasures such as form the chief business of sir from the round of idle pleasures such as form the chief business of sir
Fopling Popinjay and sir Milksop Quidnunc in town and to devote himself Fopling Popinjay and sir Milksop Quidnunc in town and to devote himself
to the noblest task for which our bodily organism has been framed. Well, to the noblest task for which our bodily organism has been framed. Well,
let us hear of it, good my friend, said Mr Dixon. I make no doubt it let us hear of it, good my friend, said Mr Dixon. I make no doubt it
smacks of wenching. Come, be seated, both. 'Tis as cheap sitting as smacks of wenching. Come, be seated, both. 'Tis as cheap sitting as
standing. Mr Mulligan accepted of the invitation and, expatiating upon standing. Mr Mulligan accepted of the invitation and, expatiating upon
his design, told his hearers that he had been led into this thought by a his design, told his hearers that he had been led into this thought by a
consideration of the causes of sterility, both the inhibitory and the consideration of the causes of sterility, both the inhibitory and the
prohibitory, whether the inhibition in its turn were due to conjugal prohibitory, whether the inhibition in its turn were due to conjugal
vexations or to a parsimony of the balance as well as whether the vexations or to a parsimony of the balance as well as whether the
prohibition proceeded from defects congenital or from proclivities prohibition proceeded from defects congenital or from proclivities
steadfast and constant heart no lure or peril or threat or degradation steadfast and constant heart no lure or peril or threat or degradation
could ever efface the image of that voluptuous loveliness which the could ever efface the image of that voluptuous loveliness which the
inspired pencil of Lafayette has limned for ages yet to come. inspired pencil of Lafayette has limned for ages yet to come.
It had better be stated here and now at the outset that the perverted It had better be stated here and now at the outset that the perverted
transcendentalism to which Mr S. Dedalus' (Div. Scep.) contentions would transcendentalism to which Mr S. Dedalus' (Div. Scep.) contentions would
appear to prove him pretty badly addicted runs directly counter to appear to prove him pretty badly addicted runs directly counter to
accepted scientific methods. Science, it cannot be too often repeated, accepted scientific methods. Science, it cannot be too often repeated,
deals with tangible phenomena. The man of science like the man in the deals with tangible phenomena. The man of science like the man in the
street has to face hardheaded facts that cannot be blinked and explain street has to face hardheaded facts that cannot be blinked and explain
them as best he can. There may be, it is true, some questions which them as best he can. There may be, it is true, some questions which
science cannot answer--at present--such as the first problem submitted by science cannot answer--at present--such as the first problem submitted by
Mr L. Bloom (Pubb. Canv.) regarding the future determination of sex. Must Mr L. Bloom (Pubb. Canv.) regarding the future determination of sex. Must
we accept the view of Empedocles of Trinacria that the right ovary (the we accept the view of Empedocles of Trinacria that the right ovary (the
postmenstrual period, assert others) is responsible for the birth of postmenstrual period, assert others) is responsible for the birth of
males or are the too long neglected spermatozoa or nemasperms the males or are the too long neglected spermatozoa or nemasperms the
differentiating factors or is it, as most embryologists incline to opine, differentiating factors or is it, as most embryologists incline to opine,
such as Culpepper, Spallanzani, Blumenbach, Lusk, Hertwig, Leopold and such as Culpepper, Spallanzani, Blumenbach, Lusk, Hertwig, Leopold and
Valenti, a mixture of both? This would be tantamount to a cooperation Valenti, a mixture of both? This would be tantamount to a cooperation
(one of nature's favourite devices) between the NISUS FORMATIVUS of the (one of nature's favourite devices) between the NISUS FORMATIVUS of the
nemasperm on the one hand and on the other a happily chosen position, nemasperm on the one hand and on the other a happily chosen position,
SUCCUBITUS FELIX of the passive element. The other problem raised by the SUCCUBITUS FELIX of the passive element. The other problem raised by the
same inquirer is scarcely less vital: infant mortality. It is interesting same inquirer is scarcely less vital: infant mortality. It is interesting
because, as he pertinently remarks, we are all born in the same way but because, as he pertinently remarks, we are all born in the same way but
we all die in different ways. Mr M. Mulligan (Hyg. et Eug. Doc.) blames we all die in different ways. Mr M. Mulligan (Hyg. et Eug. Doc.) blames
the sanitary conditions in which our greylunged citizens contract the sanitary conditions in which our greylunged citizens contract
adenoids, pulmonary complaints etc. by inhaling the bacteria which lurk adenoids, pulmonary complaints etc. by inhaling the bacteria which lurk
in dust. These factors, he alleged, and the revolting spectacles offered in dust. These factors, he alleged, and the revolting spectacles offered
by our streets, hideous publicity posters, religious ministers of all by our streets, hideous publicity posters, religious ministers of all
denominations, mutilated soldiers and sailors, exposed scorbutic denominations, mutilated soldiers and sailors, exposed scorbutic
cardrivers, the suspended carcases of dead animals, paranoic bachelors cardrivers, the suspended carcases of dead animals, paranoic bachelors
and unfructified duennas--these, he said, were accountable for any and and unfructified duennas--these, he said, were accountable for any and
every fallingoff in the calibre of the race. Kalipedia, he prophesied, every fallingoff in the calibre of the race. Kalipedia, he prophesied,
would soon be generally adopted and all the graces of life, genuinely would soon be generally adopted and all the graces of life, genuinely
roses! With the old shake of her pretty head she recalls those days. God! roses! With the old shake of her pretty head she recalls those days. God!
How beautiful now across the mist of years! But their children are How beautiful now across the mist of years! But their children are
grouped in her imagination about the bedside, hers and his, Charley, Mary grouped in her imagination about the bedside, hers and his, Charley, Mary
Alice, Frederick Albert (if he had lived), Mamy, Budgy (Victoria Alice, Frederick Albert (if he had lived), Mamy, Budgy (Victoria
Frances), Tom, Violet Constance Louisa, darling little Bobsy (called Frances), Tom, Violet Constance Louisa, darling little Bobsy (called
after our famous hero of the South African war, lord Bobs of Waterford after our famous hero of the South African war, lord Bobs of Waterford
and Candahar) and now this last pledge of their union, a Purefoy if ever and Candahar) and now this last pledge of their union, a Purefoy if ever
there was one, with the true Purefoy nose. Young hopeful will be there was one, with the true Purefoy nose. Young hopeful will be
christened Mortimer Edward after the influential third cousin of Mr christened Mortimer Edward after the influential third cousin of Mr
Purefoy in the Treasury Remembrancer's office, Dublin Castle. And so time Purefoy in the Treasury Remembrancer's office, Dublin Castle. And so time
wags on: but father Cronion has dealt lightly here. No, let no sigh break wags on: but father Cronion has dealt lightly here. No, let no sigh break
from that bosom, dear gentle Mina. And Doady, knock the ashes from your from that bosom, dear gentle Mina. And Doady, knock the ashes from your
pipe, the seasoned briar you still fancy when the curfew rings for you pipe, the seasoned briar you still fancy when the curfew rings for you
(may it be the distant day!) and dout the light whereby you read in the (may it be the distant day!) and dout the light whereby you read in the
Sacred Book for the oil too has run low, and so with a tranquil heart to Sacred Book for the oil too has run low, and so with a tranquil heart to
bed, to rest. He knows and will call in His own good time. You too have bed, to rest. He knows and will call in His own good time. You too have
fought the good fight and played loyally your man's part. Sir, to you my fought the good fight and played loyally your man's part. Sir, to you my
hand. Well done, thou good and faithful servant! hand. Well done, thou good and faithful servant!
There are sins or (let us call them as the world calls them) evil There are sins or (let us call them as the world calls them) evil
memories which are hidden away by man in the darkest places of the heart memories which are hidden away by man in the darkest places of the heart
but they abide there and wait. He may suffer their memory to grow dim, but they abide there and wait. He may suffer their memory to grow dim,
let them be as though they had not been and all but persuade himself that let them be as though they had not been and all but persuade himself that
they were not or at least were otherwise. Yet a chance word will call they were not or at least were otherwise. Yet a chance word will call
them forth suddenly and they will rise up to confront him in the most them forth suddenly and they will rise up to confront him in the most
various circumstances, a vision or a dream, or while timbrel and harp various circumstances, a vision or a dream, or while timbrel and harp
soothe his senses or amid the cool silver tranquility of the evening or soothe his senses or amid the cool silver tranquility of the evening or
at the feast, at midnight, when he is now filled with wine. Not to insult at the feast, at midnight, when he is now filled with wine. Not to insult
over him will the vision come as over one that lies under her wrath, not over him will the vision come as over one that lies under her wrath, not
for vengeance to cut him off from the living but shrouded in the piteous for vengeance to cut him off from the living but shrouded in the piteous
vesture of the past, silent, remote, reproachful. vesture of the past, silent, remote, reproachful.
The stranger still regarded on the face before him a slow recession of The stranger still regarded on the face before him a slow recession of
that false calm there, imposed, as it seemed, by habit or some studied that false calm there, imposed, as it seemed, by habit or some studied
trick, upon words so embittered as to accuse in their speaker an trick, upon words so embittered as to accuse in their speaker an
unhealthiness, a FLAIR, for the cruder things of life. A scene disengages unhealthiness, a FLAIR, for the cruder things of life. A scene disengages
itself in the observer's memory, evoked, it would seem, by a word of so itself in the observer's memory, evoked, it would seem, by a word of so
natural a homeliness as if those days were really present there (as some natural a homeliness as if those days were really present there (as some
thought) with their immediate pleasures. A shaven space of lawn one soft thought) with their immediate pleasures. A shaven space of lawn one soft
May evening, the wellremembered grove of lilacs at Roundtown, purple and May evening, the wellremembered grove of lilacs at Roundtown, purple and
white, fragrant slender spectators of the game but with much real white, fragrant slender spectators of the game but with much real
interest in the pellets as they run slowly forward over the sward or interest in the pellets as they run slowly forward over the sward or
collide and stop, one by its fellow, with a brief alert shock. And yonder collide and stop, one by its fellow, with a brief alert shock. And yonder
about that grey urn where the water moves at times in thoughtful about that grey urn where the water moves at times in thoughtful
irrigation you saw another as fragrant sisterhood, Floey, Atty, Tiny and irrigation you saw another as fragrant sisterhood, Floey, Atty, Tiny and
their darker friend with I know not what of arresting in her pose then, their darker friend with I know not what of arresting in her pose then,
Our Lady of the Cherries, a comely brace of them pendent from an ear, Our Lady of the Cherries, a comely brace of them pendent from an ear,
bringing out the foreign warmth of the skin so daintily against the cool bringing out the foreign warmth of the skin so daintily against the cool
ardent fruit. A lad of four or five in linseywoolsey (blossomtime but ardent fruit. A lad of four or five in linseywoolsey (blossomtime but
there will be cheer in the kindly hearth when ere long the bowls are there will be cheer in the kindly hearth when ere long the bowls are
gathered and hutched) is standing on the urn secured by that circle of gathered and hutched) is standing on the urn secured by that circle of
girlish fond hands. He frowns a little just as this young man does now girlish fond hands. He frowns a little just as this young man does now
with a perhaps too conscious enjoyment of the danger but must needs with a perhaps too conscious enjoyment of the danger but must needs
glance at whiles towards where his mother watches from the PIAZZETTA glance at whiles towards where his mother watches from the PIAZZETTA
giving upon the flowerclose with a faint shadow of remoteness or of giving upon the flowerclose with a faint shadow of remoteness or of
reproach (ALLES VERGANGLICHE) in her glad look. reproach (ALLES VERGANGLICHE) in her glad look.
Mark this farther and remember. The end comes suddenly. Enter that Mark this farther and remember. The end comes suddenly. Enter that
antechamber of birth where the studious are assembled and note their antechamber of birth where the studious are assembled and note their
faces. Nothing, as it seems, there of rash or violent. Quietude of faces. Nothing, as it seems, there of rash or violent. Quietude of
custody, rather, befitting their station in that house, the vigilant custody, rather, befitting their station in that house, the vigilant
watch of shepherds and of angels about a crib in Bethlehem of Juda long watch of shepherds and of angels about a crib in Bethlehem of Juda long
ago. But as before the lightning the serried stormclouds, heavy with ago. But as before the lightning the serried stormclouds, heavy with
preponderant excess of moisture, in swollen masses turgidly distended, preponderant excess of moisture, in swollen masses turgidly distended,
compass earth and sky in one vast slumber, impending above parched field compass earth and sky in one vast slumber, impending above parched field
and drowsy oxen and blighted growth of shrub and verdure till in an and drowsy oxen and blighted growth of shrub and verdure till in an
instant a flash rives their centres and with the reverberation of the instant a flash rives their centres and with the reverberation of the
thunder the cloudburst pours its torrent, so and not otherwise was the thunder the cloudburst pours its torrent, so and not otherwise was the
transformation, violent and instantaneous, upon the utterance of the transformation, violent and instantaneous, upon the utterance of the
word. word.
Burke's! outflings my lord Stephen, giving the cry, and a tag and bobtail Burke's! outflings my lord Stephen, giving the cry, and a tag and bobtail
of all them after, cockerel, jackanapes, welsher, pilldoctor, punctual of all them after, cockerel, jackanapes, welsher, pilldoctor, punctual
Bloom at heels with a universal grabbing at headgear, ashplants, bilbos, Bloom at heels with a universal grabbing at headgear, ashplants, bilbos,
Panama hats and scabbards, Zermatt alpenstocks and what not. A dedale of Panama hats and scabbards, Zermatt alpenstocks and what not. A dedale of
lusty youth, noble every student there. Nurse Callan taken aback in the lusty youth, noble every student there. Nurse Callan taken aback in the
hallway cannot stay them nor smiling surgeon coming downstairs with news hallway cannot stay them nor smiling surgeon coming downstairs with news
of placentation ended, a full pound if a milligramme. They hark him on. of placentation ended, a full pound if a milligramme. They hark him on.
The door! It is open? Ha! They are out, tumultuously, off for a minute's The door! It is open? Ha! They are out, tumultuously, off for a minute's
race, all bravely legging it, Burke's of Denzille and Holles their race, all bravely legging it, Burke's of Denzille and Holles their
ulterior goal. Dixon follows giving them sharp language but raps out an ulterior goal. Dixon follows giving them sharp language but raps out an
oath, he too, and on. Bloom stays with nurse a thought to send a kind oath, he too, and on. Bloom stays with nurse a thought to send a kind
word to happy mother and nurseling up there. Doctor Diet and Doctor word to happy mother and nurseling up there. Doctor Diet and Doctor
Quiet. Looks she too not other now? Ward of watching in Horne's house has Quiet. Looks she too not other now? Ward of watching in Horne's house has
told its tale in that washedout pallor. Then all being gone, a glance of told its tale in that washedout pallor. Then all being gone, a glance of
motherwit helping, he whispers close in going: Madam, when comes the motherwit helping, he whispers close in going: Madam, when comes the
storkbird for thee? storkbird for thee?
The air without is impregnated with raindew moisture, life essence The air without is impregnated with raindew moisture, life essence
celestial, glistening on Dublin stone there under starshiny COELUM. God's celestial, glistening on Dublin stone there under starshiny COELUM. God's
air, the Allfather's air, scintillant circumambient cessile air. Breathe air, the Allfather's air, scintillant circumambient cessile air. Breathe
it deep into thee. By heaven, Theodore Purefoy, thou hast done a doughty it deep into thee. By heaven, Theodore Purefoy, thou hast done a doughty
deed and no botch! Thou art, I vow, the remarkablest progenitor barring deed and no botch! Thou art, I vow, the remarkablest progenitor barring
none in this chaffering allincluding most farraginous chronicle. none in this chaffering allincluding most farraginous chronicle.
Astounding! In her lay a Godframed Godgiven preformed possibility which Astounding! In her lay a Godframed Godgiven preformed possibility which
thou hast fructified with thy modicum of man's work. Cleave to her! thou hast fructified with thy modicum of man's work. Cleave to her!
Serve! Toil on, labour like a very bandog and let scholarment and all Serve! Toil on, labour like a very bandog and let scholarment and all
Malthusiasts go hang. Thou art all their daddies, Theodore. Art drooping Malthusiasts go hang. Thou art all their daddies, Theodore. Art drooping
under thy load, bemoiled with butcher's bills at home and ingots (not under thy load, bemoiled with butcher's bills at home and ingots (not
thine!) in the countinghouse? Head up! For every newbegotten thou shalt thine!) in the countinghouse? Head up! For every newbegotten thou shalt
gather thy homer of ripe wheat. See, thy fleece is drenched. Dost envy gather thy homer of ripe wheat. See, thy fleece is drenched. Dost envy
Darby Dullman there with his Joan? A canting jay and a rheumeyed curdog Darby Dullman there with his Joan? A canting jay and a rheumeyed curdog
is all their progeny. Pshaw, I tell thee! He is a mule, a dead is all their progeny. Pshaw, I tell thee! He is a mule, a dead
gasteropod, without vim or stamina, not worth a cracked kreutzer. gasteropod, without vim or stamina, not worth a cracked kreutzer.
Copulation without population! No, say I! Herod's slaughter of the Copulation without population! No, say I! Herod's slaughter of the
innocents were the truer name. Vegetables, forsooth, and sterile innocents were the truer name. Vegetables, forsooth, and sterile
cohabitation! Give her beefsteaks, red, raw, bleeding! She is a hoary cohabitation! Give her beefsteaks, red, raw, bleeding! She is a hoary
pandemonium of ills, enlarged glands, mumps, quinsy, bunions, hayfever, pandemonium of ills, enlarged glands, mumps, quinsy, bunions, hayfever,
bedsores, ringworm, floating kidney, Derbyshire neck, warts, bilious bedsores, ringworm, floating kidney, Derbyshire neck, warts, bilious
attacks, gallstones, cold feet, varicose veins. A truce to threnes and attacks, gallstones, cold feet, varicose veins. A truce to threnes and
trentals and jeremies and all such congenital defunctive music! Twenty trentals and jeremies and all such congenital defunctive music! Twenty
years of it, regret them not. With thee it was not as with many that will years of it, regret them not. With thee it was not as with many that will
and would and wait and never--do. Thou sawest thy America, thy lifetask, and would and wait and never--do. Thou sawest thy America, thy lifetask,
and didst charge to cover like the transpontine bison. How saith and didst charge to cover like the transpontine bison. How saith
Zarathustra? DEINE KUH TRUBSAL MELKEST DU. NUN TRINKST DU DIE SUSSE MILCH Zarathustra? DEINE KUH TRUBSAL MELKEST DU. NUN TRINKST DU DIE SUSSE MILCH
DES EUTERS. See! it displodes for thee in abundance. Drink, man, an DES EUTERS. See! it displodes for thee in abundance. Drink, man, an
udderful! Mother's milk, Purefoy, the milk of human kin, milk too of udderful! Mother's milk, Purefoy, the milk of human kin, milk too of
those burgeoning stars overhead rutilant in thin rainvapour, punch milk, those burgeoning stars overhead rutilant in thin rainvapour, punch milk,
such as those rioters will quaff in their guzzling den, milk of madness, such as those rioters will quaff in their guzzling den, milk of madness,
the honeymilk of Canaan's land. Thy cow's dug was tough, what? Ay, but the honeymilk of Canaan's land. Thy cow's dug was tough, what? Ay, but
her milk is hot and sweet and fattening. No dollop this but thick rich her milk is hot and sweet and fattening. No dollop this but thick rich
bonnyclaber. To her, old patriarch! Pap! PER DEAM PARTULAM ET PERTUNDAM bonnyclaber. To her, old patriarch! Pap! PER DEAM PARTULAM ET PERTUNDAM
NUNC EST BIBENDUM! NUNC EST BIBENDUM!
All off for a buster, armstrong, hollering down the street. Bonafides. All off for a buster, armstrong, hollering down the street. Bonafides.
Where you slep las nigh? Timothy of the battered naggin. Like ole Billyo. Where you slep las nigh? Timothy of the battered naggin. Like ole Billyo.
Any brollies or gumboots in the fambly? Where the Henry Nevil's sawbones Any brollies or gumboots in the fambly? Where the Henry Nevil's sawbones
and ole clo? Sorra one o' me knows. Hurrah there, Dix! Forward to the and ole clo? Sorra one o' me knows. Hurrah there, Dix! Forward to the
ribbon counter. Where's Punch? All serene. Jay, look at the drunken ribbon counter. Where's Punch? All serene. Jay, look at the drunken
minister coming out of the maternity hospal! BENEDICAT VOS OMNIPOTENS minister coming out of the maternity hospal! BENEDICAT VOS OMNIPOTENS
DEUS, PATER ET FILIUS. A make, mister. The Denzille lane boys. Hell, DEUS, PATER ET FILIUS. A make, mister. The Denzille lane boys. Hell,
blast ye! Scoot. Righto, Isaacs, shove em out of the bleeding limelight. blast ye! Scoot. Righto, Isaacs, shove em out of the bleeding limelight.
Yous join uz, dear sir? No hentrusion in life. Lou heap good man. Allee Yous join uz, dear sir? No hentrusion in life. Lou heap good man. Allee
samee dis bunch. EN AVANT, MES ENFANTS! Fire away number one on the gun. samee dis bunch. EN AVANT, MES ENFANTS! Fire away number one on the gun.
Burke's! Burke's! Thence they advanced five parasangs. Slattery's mounted Burke's! Burke's! Thence they advanced five parasangs. Slattery's mounted
foot. Where's that bleeding awfur? Parson Steve, apostates' creed! No, foot. Where's that bleeding awfur? Parson Steve, apostates' creed! No,
no, Mulligan! Abaft there! Shove ahead. Keep a watch on the clock. no, Mulligan! Abaft there! Shove ahead. Keep a watch on the clock.
Chuckingout time. Mullee! What's on you? MA MERE M'A MARIEE. British Chuckingout time. Mullee! What's on you? MA MERE M'A MARIEE. British
Beatitudes! RETAMPLATAN DIGIDI BOUMBOUM. Ayes have it. To be printed and Beatitudes! RETAMPLATAN DIGIDI BOUMBOUM. Ayes have it. To be printed and
bound at the Druiddrum press by two designing females. Calf covers of bound at the Druiddrum press by two designing females. Calf covers of
pissedon green. Last word in art shades. Most beautiful book come out of pissedon green. Last word in art shades. Most beautiful book come out of
Ireland my time. SILENTIUM! Get a spurt on. Tention. Proceed to nearest Ireland my time. SILENTIUM! Get a spurt on. Tention. Proceed to nearest
canteen and there annex liquor stores. March! Tramp, tramp, tramp, the canteen and there annex liquor stores. March! Tramp, tramp, tramp, the
boys are (atitudes!) parching. Beer, beef, business, bibles, bulldogs boys are (atitudes!) parching. Beer, beef, business, bibles, bulldogs
battleships, buggery and bishops. Whether on the scaffold high. Beer, battleships, buggery and bishops. Whether on the scaffold high. Beer,
beef, trample the bibles. When for Irelandear. Trample the trampellers. beef, trample the bibles. When for Irelandear. Trample the trampellers.
Thunderation! Keep the durned millingtary step. We fall. Bishops Thunderation! Keep the durned millingtary step. We fall. Bishops
boosebox. Halt! Heave to. Rugger. Scrum in. No touch kicking. Wow, my boosebox. Halt! Heave to. Rugger. Scrum in. No touch kicking. Wow, my
tootsies! You hurt? Most amazingly sorry! tootsies! You hurt? Most amazingly sorry!
Query. Who's astanding this here do? Proud possessor of damnall. Declare Query. Who's astanding this here do? Proud possessor of damnall. Declare
misery. Bet to the ropes. Me nantee saltee. Not a red at me this week misery. Bet to the ropes. Me nantee saltee. Not a red at me this week
gone. Yours? Mead of our fathers for the UBERMENSCH. Dittoh. Five number gone. Yours? Mead of our fathers for the UBERMENSCH. Dittoh. Five number
ones. You, sir? Ginger cordial. Chase me, the cabby's caudle. Stimulate ones. You, sir? Ginger cordial. Chase me, the cabby's caudle. Stimulate
the caloric. Winding of his ticker. Stopped short never to go again when the caloric. Winding of his ticker. Stopped short never to go again when
the old. Absinthe for me, savvy? CARAMBA! Have an eggnog or a prairie the old. Absinthe for me, savvy? CARAMBA! Have an eggnog or a prairie
oyster. Enemy? Avuncular's got my timepiece. Ten to. Obligated awful. oyster. Enemy? Avuncular's got my timepiece. Ten to. Obligated awful.
Don't mention it. Got a pectoral trauma, eh, Dix? Pos fact. Got bet be a Don't mention it. Got a pectoral trauma, eh, Dix? Pos fact. Got bet be a
boomblebee whenever he wus settin sleepin in hes bit garten. Digs up near boomblebee whenever he wus settin sleepin in hes bit garten. Digs up near
the Mater. Buckled he is. Know his dona? Yup, sartin I do. Full of a the Mater. Buckled he is. Know his dona? Yup, sartin I do. Full of a
dure. See her in her dishybilly. Peels off a credit. Lovey lovekin. None dure. See her in her dishybilly. Peels off a credit. Lovey lovekin. None
of your lean kine, not much. Pull down the blind, love. Two Ardilauns. of your lean kine, not much. Pull down the blind, love. Two Ardilauns.
Same here. Look slippery. If you fall don't wait to get up. Five, seven, Same here. Look slippery. If you fall don't wait to get up. Five, seven,
nine. Fine! Got a prime pair of mincepies, no kid. And her take me to nine. Fine! Got a prime pair of mincepies, no kid. And her take me to
rests and her anker of rum. Must be seen to be believed. Your starving rests and her anker of rum. Must be seen to be believed. Your starving
eyes and allbeplastered neck you stole my heart, O gluepot. Sir? Spud eyes and allbeplastered neck you stole my heart, O gluepot. Sir? Spud
again the rheumatiz? All poppycock, you'll scuse me saying. For the hoi again the rheumatiz? All poppycock, you'll scuse me saying. For the hoi
polloi. I vear thee beest a gert vool. Well, doc? Back fro Lapland? Your polloi. I vear thee beest a gert vool. Well, doc? Back fro Lapland? Your
corporosity sagaciating O K? How's the squaws and papooses? Womanbody corporosity sagaciating O K? How's the squaws and papooses? Womanbody
after going on the straw? Stand and deliver. Password. There's hair. Ours after going on the straw? Stand and deliver. Password. There's hair. Ours
the white death and the ruddy birth. Hi! Spit in your own eye, boss! the white death and the ruddy birth. Hi! Spit in your own eye, boss!
Mummer's wire. Cribbed out of Meredith. Jesified, orchidised, polycimical Mummer's wire. Cribbed out of Meredith. Jesified, orchidised, polycimical
jesuit! Aunty mine's writing Pa Kinch. Baddybad Stephen lead astray jesuit! Aunty mine's writing Pa Kinch. Baddybad Stephen lead astray
goodygood Malachi. goodygood Malachi.
Hurroo! Collar the leather, youngun. Roun wi the nappy. Here, Jock braw Hurroo! Collar the leather, youngun. Roun wi the nappy. Here, Jock braw
Hielentman's your barleybree. Lang may your lum reek and your kailpot Hielentman's your barleybree. Lang may your lum reek and your kailpot
boil! My tipple. MERCI. Here's to us. How's that? Leg before wicket. boil! My tipple. MERCI. Here's to us. How's that? Leg before wicket.
Don't stain my brandnew sitinems. Give's a shake of peppe, you there. Don't stain my brandnew sitinems. Give's a shake of peppe, you there.
Catch aholt. Caraway seed to carry away. Twig? Shrieks of silence. Every Catch aholt. Caraway seed to carry away. Twig? Shrieks of silence. Every
cove to his gentry mort. Venus Pandemos. LES PETITES FEMMES. Bold bad cove to his gentry mort. Venus Pandemos. LES PETITES FEMMES. Bold bad
girl from the town of Mullingar. Tell her I was axing at her. Hauding girl from the town of Mullingar. Tell her I was axing at her. Hauding
Sara by the wame. On the road to Malahide. Me? If she who seduced me had Sara by the wame. On the road to Malahide. Me? If she who seduced me had
left but the name. What do you want for ninepence? Machree, macruiskeen. left but the name. What do you want for ninepence? Machree, macruiskeen.
Smutty Moll for a mattress jig. And a pull all together. EX! Smutty Moll for a mattress jig. And a pull all together. EX!
Waiting, guvnor? Most deciduously. Bet your boots on. Stunned like, Waiting, guvnor? Most deciduously. Bet your boots on. Stunned like,
seeing as how no shiners is acoming. Underconstumble? He've got the chink seeing as how no shiners is acoming. Underconstumble? He've got the chink
AD LIB. Seed near free poun on un a spell ago a said war hisn. Us come AD LIB. Seed near free poun on un a spell ago a said war hisn. Us come
right in on your invite, see? Up to you, matey. Out with the oof. Two bar right in on your invite, see? Up to you, matey. Out with the oof. Two bar
and a wing. You larn that go off of they there Frenchy bilks? Won't wash and a wing. You larn that go off of they there Frenchy bilks? Won't wash
here for nuts nohow. Lil chile velly solly. Ise de cutest colour coon here for nuts nohow. Lil chile velly solly. Ise de cutest colour coon
down our side. Gawds teruth, Chawley. We are nae fou. We're nae tha fou. down our side. Gawds teruth, Chawley. We are nae fou. We're nae tha fou.
Au reservoir, mossoo. Tanks you. Au reservoir, mossoo. Tanks you.
'Tis, sure. What say? In the speakeasy. Tight. I shee you, shir. Bantam, 'Tis, sure. What say? In the speakeasy. Tight. I shee you, shir. Bantam,
two days teetee. Bowsing nowt but claretwine. Garn! Have a glint, do. two days teetee. Bowsing nowt but claretwine. Garn! Have a glint, do.
Gum, I'm jiggered. And been to barber he have. Too full for words. With a Gum, I'm jiggered. And been to barber he have. Too full for words. With a
railway bloke. How come you so? Opera he'd like? Rose of Castile. Rows of railway bloke. How come you so? Opera he'd like? Rose of Castile. Rows of
cast. Police! Some H2O for a gent fainted. Look at Bantam's flowers. cast. Police! Some H2O for a gent fainted. Look at Bantam's flowers.
Gemini. He's going to holler. The colleen bawn. My colleen bawn. O, Gemini. He's going to holler. The colleen bawn. My colleen bawn. O,
cheese it! Shut his blurry Dutch oven with a firm hand. Had the winner cheese it! Shut his blurry Dutch oven with a firm hand. Had the winner
today till I tipped him a dead cert. The ruffin cly the nab of Stephen today till I tipped him a dead cert. The ruffin cly the nab of Stephen
Hand as give me the jady coppaleen. He strike a telegramboy paddock wire Hand as give me the jady coppaleen. He strike a telegramboy paddock wire
big bug Bass to the depot. Shove him a joey and grahamise. Mare on form big bug Bass to the depot. Shove him a joey and grahamise. Mare on form
hot order. Guinea to a goosegog. Tell a cram, that. Gospeltrue. Criminal hot order. Guinea to a goosegog. Tell a cram, that. Gospeltrue. Criminal
diversion? I think that yes. Sure thing. Land him in chokeechokee if the diversion? I think that yes. Sure thing. Land him in chokeechokee if the
harman beck copped the game. Madden back Madden's a maddening back. O harman beck copped the game. Madden back Madden's a maddening back. O
lust our refuge and our strength. Decamping. Must you go? Off to mammy. lust our refuge and our strength. Decamping. Must you go? Off to mammy.
Stand by. Hide my blushes someone. All in if he spots me. Come ahome, our Stand by. Hide my blushes someone. All in if he spots me. Come ahome, our
Bantam. Horryvar, mong vioo. Dinna forget the cowslips for hersel. Bantam. Horryvar, mong vioo. Dinna forget the cowslips for hersel.
Cornfide. Wha gev ye thon colt? Pal to pal. Jannock. Of John Thomas, her Cornfide. Wha gev ye thon colt? Pal to pal. Jannock. Of John Thomas, her
spouse. No fake, old man Leo. S'elp me, honest injun. Shiver my timbers spouse. No fake, old man Leo. S'elp me, honest injun. Shiver my timbers
if I had. There's a great big holy friar. Vyfor you no me tell? Vel, I if I had. There's a great big holy friar. Vyfor you no me tell? Vel, I
ses, if that aint a sheeny nachez, vel, I vil get misha mishinnah. ses, if that aint a sheeny nachez, vel, I vil get misha mishinnah.
Through yerd our lord, Amen. Through yerd our lord, Amen.
You move a motion? Steve boy, you're going it some. More bluggy You move a motion? Steve boy, you're going it some. More bluggy
drunkables? Will immensely splendiferous stander permit one stooder of drunkables? Will immensely splendiferous stander permit one stooder of
most extreme poverty and one largesize grandacious thirst to terminate most extreme poverty and one largesize grandacious thirst to terminate
one expensive inaugurated libation? Give's a breather. Landlord, one expensive inaugurated libation? Give's a breather. Landlord,
landlord, have you good wine, staboo? Hoots, mon, a wee drap to pree. Cut landlord, have you good wine, staboo? Hoots, mon, a wee drap to pree. Cut
and come again. Right. Boniface! Absinthe the lot. NOS OMNES BIBERIMUS and come again. Right. Boniface! Absinthe the lot. NOS OMNES BIBERIMUS
VIRIDUM TOXICUM DIABOLUS CAPIAT POSTERIORIA NOSTRIA. Closingtime, gents. VIRIDUM TOXICUM DIABOLUS CAPIAT POSTERIORIA NOSTRIA. Closingtime, gents.
Eh? Rome boose for the Bloom toff. I hear you say onions? Bloo? Cadges Eh? Rome boose for the Bloom toff. I hear you say onions? Bloo? Cadges
ads. Photo's papli, by all that's gorgeous. Play low, pardner. Slide. ads. Photo's papli, by all that's gorgeous. Play low, pardner. Slide.
BONSOIR LA COMPAGNIE. And snares of the poxfiend. Where's the buck and BONSOIR LA COMPAGNIE. And snares of the poxfiend. Where's the buck and
Namby Amby? Skunked? Leg bail. Aweel, ye maun e'en gang yer gates. Namby Amby? Skunked? Leg bail. Aweel, ye maun e'en gang yer gates.
Checkmate. King to tower. Kind Kristyann wil yu help yung man hoose frend Checkmate. King to tower. Kind Kristyann wil yu help yung man hoose frend
tuk bungellow kee tu find plais whear tu lay crown of his hed 2 night. tuk bungellow kee tu find plais whear tu lay crown of his hed 2 night.
Crickey, I'm about sprung. Tarnally dog gone my shins if this beent the Crickey, I'm about sprung. Tarnally dog gone my shins if this beent the
bestest puttiest longbreak yet. Item, curate, couple of cookies for this bestest puttiest longbreak yet. Item, curate, couple of cookies for this
child. Cot's plood and prandypalls, none! Not a pite of sheeses? Thrust child. Cot's plood and prandypalls, none! Not a pite of sheeses? Thrust
syphilis down to hell and with him those other licensed spirits. Time, syphilis down to hell and with him those other licensed spirits. Time,
gents! Who wander through the world. Health all! A LA VOTRE! gents! Who wander through the world. Health all! A LA VOTRE!
Golly, whatten tunket's yon guy in the mackintosh? Dusty Rhodes. Peep at Golly, whatten tunket's yon guy in the mackintosh? Dusty Rhodes. Peep at
his wearables. By mighty! What's he got? Jubilee mutton. Bovril, by his wearables. By mighty! What's he got? Jubilee mutton. Bovril, by
James. Wants it real bad. D'ye ken bare socks? Seedy cuss in the James. Wants it real bad. D'ye ken bare socks? Seedy cuss in the
Richmond? Rawthere! Thought he had a deposit of lead in his penis. Richmond? Rawthere! Thought he had a deposit of lead in his penis.
Trumpery insanity. Bartle the Bread we calls him. That, sir, was once a Trumpery insanity. Bartle the Bread we calls him. That, sir, was once a
prosperous cit. Man all tattered and torn that married a maiden all prosperous cit. Man all tattered and torn that married a maiden all
forlorn. Slung her hook, she did. Here see lost love. Walking Mackintosh forlorn. Slung her hook, she did. Here see lost love. Walking Mackintosh
of lonely canyon. Tuck and turn in. Schedule time. Nix for the hornies. of lonely canyon. Tuck and turn in. Schedule time. Nix for the hornies.
Pardon? Seen him today at a runefal? Chum o' yourn passed in his checks? Pardon? Seen him today at a runefal? Chum o' yourn passed in his checks?
Ludamassy! Pore piccaninnies! Thou'll no be telling me thot, Pold veg! Ludamassy! Pore piccaninnies! Thou'll no be telling me thot, Pold veg!
Did ums blubble bigsplash crytears cos fren Padney was took off in black Did ums blubble bigsplash crytears cos fren Padney was took off in black
bag? Of all de darkies Massa Pat was verra best. I never see the like bag? Of all de darkies Massa Pat was verra best. I never see the like
since I was born. TIENS, TIENS, but it is well sad, that, my faith, yes. since I was born. TIENS, TIENS, but it is well sad, that, my faith, yes.
O, get, rev on a gradient one in nine. Live axle drives are souped. Lay O, get, rev on a gradient one in nine. Live axle drives are souped. Lay
you two to one Jenatzy licks him ruddy well hollow. Jappies? High angle you two to one Jenatzy licks him ruddy well hollow. Jappies? High angle
fire, inyah! Sunk by war specials. Be worse for him, says he, nor any fire, inyah! Sunk by war specials. Be worse for him, says he, nor any
Rooshian. Time all. There's eleven of them. Get ye gone. Forward, woozy Rooshian. Time all. There's eleven of them. Get ye gone. Forward, woozy
wobblers! Night. Night. May Allah the Excellent One your soul this night wobblers! Night. Night. May Allah the Excellent One your soul this night
ever tremendously conserve. ever tremendously conserve.
Your attention! We're nae tha fou. The Leith police dismisseth us. The Your attention! We're nae tha fou. The Leith police dismisseth us. The
least tholice. Ware hawks for the chap puking. Unwell in his abominable least tholice. Ware hawks for the chap puking. Unwell in his abominable
regions. Yooka. Night. Mona, my true love. Yook. Mona, my own love. Ook. regions. Yooka. Night. Mona, my true love. Yook. Mona, my own love. Ook.
Hark! Shut your obstropolos. Pflaap! Pflaap! Blaze on. There she goes. Hark! Shut your obstropolos. Pflaap! Pflaap! Blaze on. There she goes.
Brigade! Bout ship. Mount street way. Cut up! Pflaap! Tally ho. You not Brigade! Bout ship. Mount street way. Cut up! Pflaap! Tally ho. You not
come? Run, skelter, race. Pflaaaap! come? Run, skelter, race. Pflaaaap!
Lynch! Hey? Sign on long o' me. Denzille lane this way. Change here for Lynch! Hey? Sign on long o' me. Denzille lane this way. Change here for
Bawdyhouse. We two, she said, will seek the kips where shady Mary is. Bawdyhouse. We two, she said, will seek the kips where shady Mary is.
Righto, any old time. LAETABUNTUR IN CUBILIBUS SUIS. You coming long? Righto, any old time. LAETABUNTUR IN CUBILIBUS SUIS. You coming long?
Whisper, who the sooty hell's the johnny in the black duds? Hush! Sinned Whisper, who the sooty hell's the johnny in the black duds? Hush! Sinned
against the light and even now that day is at hand when he shall come to against the light and even now that day is at hand when he shall come to
judge the world by fire. Pflaap! UT IMPLERENTUR SCRIPTURAE. Strike up a judge the world by fire. Pflaap! UT IMPLERENTUR SCRIPTURAE. Strike up a
ballad. Then outspake medical Dick to his comrade medical Davy. ballad. Then outspake medical Dick to his comrade medical Davy.
Christicle, who's this excrement yellow gospeller on the Merrion hall? Christicle, who's this excrement yellow gospeller on the Merrion hall?
Elijah is coming! Washed in the blood of the Lamb. Come on you Elijah is coming! Washed in the blood of the Lamb. Come on you
winefizzling, ginsizzling, booseguzzling existences! Come on, you dog- winefizzling, ginsizzling, booseguzzling existences! Come on, you dog-
gone, bullnecked, beetlebrowed, hogjowled, peanutbrained, weaseleyed gone, bullnecked, beetlebrowed, hogjowled, peanutbrained, weaseleyed
fourflushers, false alarms and excess baggage! Come on, you triple fourflushers, false alarms and excess baggage! Come on, you triple
extract of infamy! Alexander J Christ Dowie, that's my name, that's extract of infamy! Alexander J Christ Dowie, that's my name, that's
yanked to glory most half this planet from Frisco beach to Vladivostok. yanked to glory most half this planet from Frisco beach to Vladivostok.
The Deity aint no nickel dime bumshow. I put it to you that He's on the The Deity aint no nickel dime bumshow. I put it to you that He's on the
square and a corking fine business proposition. He's the grandest thing square and a corking fine business proposition. He's the grandest thing
yet and don't you forget it. Shout salvation in King Jesus. You'll need yet and don't you forget it. Shout salvation in King Jesus. You'll need
to rise precious early you sinner there, if you want to diddle the to rise precious early you sinner there, if you want to diddle the
Almighty God. Pflaaaap! Not half. He's got a coughmixture with a punch in Almighty God. Pflaaaap! Not half. He's got a coughmixture with a punch in
it for you, my friend, in his back pocket. Just you try it on. it for you, my friend, in his back pocket. Just you try it on.
    * * * * * * *     * * * * * * *
THE MABBOT STREET ENTRANCE OF NIGHTTOWN, BEFORE WHICH STRETCHES AN THE MABBOT STREET ENTRANCE OF NIGHTTOWN, BEFORE WHICH STRETCHES AN
UNCOBBLED TRAMSIDING SET WITH SKELETON TRACKS, RED AND GREEN WILL-O'-THE- UNCOBBLED TRAMSIDING SET WITH SKELETON TRACKS, RED AND GREEN WILL-O'-THE-
WISPS AND DANGER SIGNALS. ROWS OF GRIMY HOUSES WITH GAPING DOORS. RARE WISPS AND DANGER SIGNALS. ROWS OF GRIMY HOUSES WITH GAPING DOORS. RARE
LAMPS WITH FAINT RAINBOW FINS. ROUND RABAIOTTI'S HALTED ICE GONDOLA LAMPS WITH FAINT RAINBOW FINS. ROUND RABAIOTTI'S HALTED ICE GONDOLA
STUNTED MEN AND WOMEN SQUABBLE. THEY GRAB WAFERS BETWEEN WHICH ARE WEDGED STUNTED MEN AND WOMEN SQUABBLE. THEY GRAB WAFERS BETWEEN WHICH ARE WEDGED
LUMPS OF CORAL AND COPPER SNOW. SUCKING, THEY SCATTER SLOWLY. CHILDREN. LUMPS OF CORAL AND COPPER SNOW. SUCKING, THEY SCATTER SLOWLY. CHILDREN.
THE SWANCOMB OF THE GONDOLA, HIGHREARED, FORGES ON THROUGH THE MURK, THE SWANCOMB OF THE GONDOLA, HIGHREARED, FORGES ON THROUGH THE MURK,
WHITE AND BLUE UNDER A LIGHTHOUSE. WHISTLES CALL AND ANSWER. WHITE AND BLUE UNDER A LIGHTHOUSE. WHISTLES CALL AND ANSWER.
THE CALLS: Wait, my love, and I'll be with you. THE CALLS: Wait, my love, and I'll be with you.
THE ANSWERS: Round behind the stable. THE ANSWERS: Round behind the stable.
(A DEAFMUTE IDIOT WITH GOGGLE EYES, HIS SHAPELESS MOUTH DRIBBLING, JERKS (A DEAFMUTE IDIOT WITH GOGGLE EYES, HIS SHAPELESS MOUTH DRIBBLING, JERKS
PAST, SHAKEN IN SAINT VITUS' DANCE. A CHAIN OF CHILDREN 'S HANDS PAST, SHAKEN IN SAINT VITUS' DANCE. A CHAIN OF CHILDREN 'S HANDS
IMPRISONS HIM.) IMPRISONS HIM.)
THE CHILDREN: Kithogue! Salute! THE CHILDREN: Kithogue! Salute!
THE IDIOT: (LIFTS A PALSIED LEFT ARM AND GURGLES) Grhahute! THE IDIOT: (LIFTS A PALSIED LEFT ARM AND GURGLES) Grhahute!
THE CHILDREN: Where's the great light? THE CHILDREN: Where's the great light?
THE IDIOT: (GOBBING) Ghaghahest. THE IDIOT: (GOBBING) Ghaghahest.
(THEY RELEASE HIM. HE JERKS ON. A PIGMY WOMAN SWINGS ON A ROPE SLUNG (THEY RELEASE HIM. HE JERKS ON. A PIGMY WOMAN SWINGS ON A ROPE SLUNG
BETWEEN TWO RAILINGS, COUNTING. A FORM SPRAWLED AGAINST A DUSTBIN AND BETWEEN TWO RAILINGS, COUNTING. A FORM SPRAWLED AGAINST A DUSTBIN AND
MUFFLED BY ITS ARM AND HAT SNORES, GROANS, GRINDING GROWLING TEETH, AND MUFFLED BY ITS ARM AND HAT SNORES, GROANS, GRINDING GROWLING TEETH, AND
SNORES AGAIN. ON A STEP A GNOME TOTTING AMONG A RUBBISHTIP CROUCHES TO SNORES AGAIN. ON A STEP A GNOME TOTTING AMONG A RUBBISHTIP CROUCHES TO
SHOULDER A SACK OF RAGS AND BONES. A CRONE STANDING BY WITH A SMOKY SHOULDER A SACK OF RAGS AND BONES. A CRONE STANDING BY WITH A SMOKY
OILLAMP RAMS HER LAST BOTTLE IN THE MAW OF HIS SACK. HE HEAVES HIS BOOTY, OILLAMP RAMS HER LAST BOTTLE IN THE MAW OF HIS SACK. HE HEAVES HIS BOOTY,
TUGS ASKEW HIS PEAKED CAP AND HOBBLES OFF MUTELY. THE CRONE MAKES BACK TUGS ASKEW HIS PEAKED CAP AND HOBBLES OFF MUTELY. THE CRONE MAKES BACK
FOR HER LAIR, SWAYING HER LAMP. A BANDY CHILD, ASQUAT ON THE DOORSTEP FOR HER LAIR, SWAYING HER LAMP. A BANDY CHILD, ASQUAT ON THE DOORSTEP
WITH A PAPER SHUTTLECOCK, CRAWLS SIDLING AFTER HER IN SPURTS, CLUTCHES WITH A PAPER SHUTTLECOCK, CRAWLS SIDLING AFTER HER IN SPURTS, CLUTCHES
HER SKIRT, SCRAMBLES UP. A DRUNKEN NAVVY GRIPS WITH BOTH HANDS THE HER SKIRT, SCRAMBLES UP. A DRUNKEN NAVVY GRIPS WITH BOTH HANDS THE
RAILINGS OF AN AREA, LURCHING HEAVILY. AT A COMER TWO NIGHT WATCH IN RAILINGS OF AN AREA, LURCHING HEAVILY. AT A COMER TWO NIGHT WATCH IN
SHOULDERCAPES, THEIR HANDS UPON THEIR STAFFHOLSTERS, LOOM TALL. A PLATE SHOULDERCAPES, THEIR HANDS UPON THEIR STAFFHOLSTERS, LOOM TALL. A PLATE
CRASHES: A WOMAN SCREAMS: A CHILD WAILS. OATHS OF A MAN ROAR, MUTTER, CRASHES: A WOMAN SCREAMS: A CHILD WAILS. OATHS OF A MAN ROAR, MUTTER,
CEASE. FIGURES WANDER, LURK, PEER FROM WARRENS. IN A ROOM LIT BY A CANDLE CEASE. FIGURES WANDER, LURK, PEER FROM WARRENS. IN A ROOM LIT BY A CANDLE
STUCK IN A BOTTLENECK A SLUT COMBS OUT THE TATTS FROM THE HAIR OF A STUCK IN A BOTTLENECK A SLUT COMBS OUT THE TATTS FROM THE HAIR OF A
don't answer when they solicit must be horrible for them till they harden. don't answer when they solicit must be horrible for them till they harden.
And kissed my hand when I gave her the extra two shillings. Parrots. Press And kissed my hand when I gave her the extra two shillings. Parrots. Press
the button and the bird will squeak. Wish she hadn't called me sir. O, her the button and the bird will squeak. Wish she hadn't called me sir. O, her
mouth in the dark! And you a married man with a single girl! That's what mouth in the dark! And you a married man with a single girl! That's what
they enjoy. Taking a man from another woman. Or even hear of it. they enjoy. Taking a man from another woman. Or even hear of it.
Different with me. Glad to get away from other chap's wife. Eating off his Different with me. Glad to get away from other chap's wife. Eating off his
cold plate. Chap in the Burton today spitting back gumchewed gristle. cold plate. Chap in the Burton today spitting back gumchewed gristle.
French letter still in my pocketbook. Cause of half the trouble. But might French letter still in my pocketbook. Cause of half the trouble. But might
happen sometime, I don't think. Come in, all is prepared. I dreamt. What? happen sometime, I don't think. Come in, all is prepared. I dreamt. What?
Worst is beginning. How they change the venue when it's not what they Worst is beginning. How they change the venue when it's not what they
like. Ask you do you like mushrooms because she once knew a gentleman like. Ask you do you like mushrooms because she once knew a gentleman
who. Or ask you what someone was going to say when he changed his who. Or ask you what someone was going to say when he changed his
mind and stopped. Yet if I went the whole hog, say: I want to, something mind and stopped. Yet if I went the whole hog, say: I want to, something
like that. Because I did. She too. Offend her. Then make it up. Pretend to like that. Because I did. She too. Offend her. Then make it up. Pretend to
want something awfully, then cry off for her sake. Flatters them. She must want something awfully, then cry off for her sake. Flatters them. She must
have been thinking of someone else all the time. What harm? Must since she have been thinking of someone else all the time. What harm? Must since she
came to the use of reason, he, he and he. First kiss does the trick. The came to the use of reason, he, he and he. First kiss does the trick. The
propitious moment. Something inside them goes pop. Mushy like, tell by propitious moment. Something inside them goes pop. Mushy like, tell by
their eye, on the sly. First thoughts are best. Remember that till their their eye, on the sly. First thoughts are best. Remember that till their
dying day. Molly, lieutenant Mulvey that kissed her under the Moorish wall dying day. Molly, lieutenant Mulvey that kissed her under the Moorish wall
beside the gardens. Fifteen she told me. But her breasts were developed. beside the gardens. Fifteen she told me. But her breasts were developed.
Fell asleep then. After Glencree dinner that was when we drove home. Fell asleep then. After Glencree dinner that was when we drove home.
Featherbed mountain. Gnashing her teeth in sleep. Lord mayor had his eye Featherbed mountain. Gnashing her teeth in sleep. Lord mayor had his eye
on her too. Val Dillon. Apoplectic. on her too. Val Dillon. Apoplectic.
There she is with them down there for the fireworks. My fireworks. There she is with them down there for the fireworks. My fireworks.
Up like a rocket, down like a stick. And the children, twins they must be, Up like a rocket, down like a stick. And the children, twins they must be,
waiting for something to happen. Want to be grownups. Dressing in waiting for something to happen. Want to be grownups. Dressing in
mother's clothes. Time enough, understand all the ways of the world. And mother's clothes. Time enough, understand all the ways of the world. And
the dark one with the mop head and the nigger mouth. I knew she could the dark one with the mop head and the nigger mouth. I knew she could
whistle. Mouth made for that. Like Molly. Why that highclass whore in whistle. Mouth made for that. Like Molly. Why that highclass whore in
Jammet's wore her veil only to her nose. Would you mind, please, telling Jammet's wore her veil only to her nose. Would you mind, please, telling
me the right time? I'll tell you the right time up a dark lane. Say prunes me the right time? I'll tell you the right time up a dark lane. Say prunes
and prisms forty times every morning, cure for fat lips. Caressing the and prisms forty times every morning, cure for fat lips. Caressing the
little boy too. Onlookers see most of the game. Of course they understand little boy too. Onlookers see most of the game. Of course they understand
birds, animals, babies. In their line. birds, animals, babies. In their line.
Didn't look back when she was going down the strand. Wouldn't give that Didn't look back when she was going down the strand. Wouldn't give that
satisfaction. Those girls, those girls, those lovely seaside girls. Fine satisfaction. Those girls, those girls, those lovely seaside girls. Fine
eyes she had, clear. It's the white of the eye brings that out not so much eyes she had, clear. It's the white of the eye brings that out not so much
the pupil. Did she know what I? Course. Like a cat sitting beyond a dog's the pupil. Did she know what I? Course. Like a cat sitting beyond a dog's
jump. Women never meet one like that Wilkins in the high school drawing a jump. Women never meet one like that Wilkins in the high school drawing a
picture of Venus with all his belongings on show. Call that innocence? picture of Venus with all his belongings on show. Call that innocence?
Poor idiot! His wife has her work cut out for her. Never see them sit Poor idiot! His wife has her work cut out for her. Never see them sit
on a bench marked WET PAINT. Eyes all over them. Look under the bed on a bench marked WET PAINT. Eyes all over them. Look under the bed
for what's not there. Longing to get the fright of their lives. for what's not there. Longing to get the fright of their lives.
Sharp as needles they are. When I said to Molly the man at the corner Sharp as needles they are. When I said to Molly the man at the corner
of Cuffe street was goodlooking, thought she might like, twigged at of Cuffe street was goodlooking, thought she might like, twigged at
once he had a false arm. Had, too. Where do they get that? Typist once he had a false arm. Had, too. Where do they get that? Typist
going up Roger Greene's stairs two at a time to show her understandings. going up Roger Greene's stairs two at a time to show her understandings.
Handed down from father to, mother to daughter, I mean. Bred in the Handed down from father to, mother to daughter, I mean. Bred in the
bone. Milly for example drying her handkerchief on the mirror to bone. Milly for example drying her handkerchief on the mirror to
save the ironing. Best place for an ad to catch a woman's eye on a save the ironing. Best place for an ad to catch a woman's eye on a
mirror. And when I sent her for Molly's Paisley shawl to Prescott's mirror. And when I sent her for Molly's Paisley shawl to Prescott's
by the way that ad I must, carrying home the change in her stocking! by the way that ad I must, carrying home the change in her stocking!
Wiping pens in their stockings. But the ball rolled down to her as if it Wiping pens in their stockings. But the ball rolled down to her as if it
understood. Every bullet has its billet. Course I never could throw understood. Every bullet has its billet. Course I never could throw
anything straight at school. Crooked as a ram's horn. Sad however because anything straight at school. Crooked as a ram's horn. Sad however because
it lasts only a few years till they settle down to potwalloping and papa's it lasts only a few years till they settle down to potwalloping and papa's
pants will soon fit Willy and fuller's earth for the baby when they hold pants will soon fit Willy and fuller's earth for the baby when they hold
him out to do ah ah. No soft job. Saves them. Keeps them out of harm's him out to do ah ah. No soft job. Saves them. Keeps them out of harm's
way. Nature. Washing child, washing corpse. Dignam. Children's hands way. Nature. Washing child, washing corpse. Dignam. Children's hands
always round them. Cocoanut skulls, monkeys, not even closed at first, always round them. Cocoanut skulls, monkeys, not even closed at first,
sour milk in their swaddles and tainted curds. Oughtn't to have given sour milk in their swaddles and tainted curds. Oughtn't to have given
that child an empty teat to suck. Fill it up with wind. Mrs Beaufoy, that child an empty teat to suck. Fill it up with wind. Mrs Beaufoy,
Purefoy. Must call to the hospital. Wonder is nurse Callan there still. Purefoy. Must call to the hospital. Wonder is nurse Callan there still.
She used to look over some nights when Molly was in the Coffee Palace. She used to look over some nights when Molly was in the Coffee Palace.
That young doctor O'Hare I noticed her brushing his coat. And Mrs Breen That young doctor O'Hare I noticed her brushing his coat. And Mrs Breen
and Mrs Dignam once like that too, marriageable. Worst of all at night and Mrs Dignam once like that too, marriageable. Worst of all at night
Mrs Duggan told me in the City Arms. Husband rolling in drunk, stink of Mrs Duggan told me in the City Arms. Husband rolling in drunk, stink of
pub off him like a polecat. Have that in your nose in the dark, pub off him like a polecat. Have that in your nose in the dark,
whiff of stale boose. Then ask in the morning: was I drunk last whiff of stale boose. Then ask in the morning: was I drunk last
night? Bad policy however to fault the husband. Chickens come night? Bad policy however to fault the husband. Chickens come
home to roost. They stick by one another like glue. Maybe the home to roost. They stick by one another like glue. Maybe the
women's fault also. That's where Molly can knock spots off them. It's the women's fault also. That's where Molly can knock spots off them. It's the
blood of the south. Moorish. Also the form, the figure. Hands felt for the blood of the south. Moorish. Also the form, the figure. Hands felt for the
opulent. Just compare for instance those others. Wife locked up at home, opulent. Just compare for instance those others. Wife locked up at home,
skeleton in the cupboard. Allow me to introduce my. Then they trot you out skeleton in the cupboard. Allow me to introduce my. Then they trot you out
some kind of a nondescript, wouldn't know what to call her. Always see a some kind of a nondescript, wouldn't know what to call her. Always see a
fellow's weak point in his wife. Still there's destiny in it, falling in fellow's weak point in his wife. Still there's destiny in it, falling in
love. Have their own secrets between them. Chaps that would go to the dogs love. Have their own secrets between them. Chaps that would go to the dogs
if some woman didn't take them in hand. Then little chits of girls, if some woman didn't take them in hand. Then little chits of girls,
height of a shilling in coppers, with little hubbies. As God made them he height of a shilling in coppers, with little hubbies. As God made them he
matched them. Sometimes children turn out well enough. Twice nought makes matched them. Sometimes children turn out well enough. Twice nought makes
one. Or old rich chap of seventy and blushing bride. Marry in May and one. Or old rich chap of seventy and blushing bride. Marry in May and
repent in December. This wet is very unpleasant. Stuck. Well the foreskin repent in December. This wet is very unpleasant. Stuck. Well the foreskin
is not back. Better detach. is not back. Better detach.
Ow! Ow!
Other hand a sixfooter with a wifey up to his watchpocket. Long and Other hand a sixfooter with a wifey up to his watchpocket. Long and
the short of it. Big he and little she. Very strange about my watch. the short of it. Big he and little she. Very strange about my watch.
Wristwatches are always going wrong. Wonder is there any magnetic Wristwatches are always going wrong. Wonder is there any magnetic
influence between the person because that was about the time he. Yes, I influence between the person because that was about the time he. Yes, I
suppose, at once. Cat's away, the mice will play. I remember looking in suppose, at once. Cat's away, the mice will play. I remember looking in
Pill lane. Also that now is magnetism. Back of everything magnetism. Earth Pill lane. Also that now is magnetism. Back of everything magnetism. Earth
Like flowers. It was too. Violets. Came from the turpentine probably in Like flowers. It was too. Violets. Came from the turpentine probably in
the paint. Make their own use of everything. Same time doing it scraped the paint. Make their own use of everything. Same time doing it scraped
her slipper on the floor so they wouldn't hear. But lots of them can't her slipper on the floor so they wouldn't hear. But lots of them can't
kick the beam, I think. Keep that thing up for hours. Kind of a general kick the beam, I think. Keep that thing up for hours. Kind of a general
all round over me and half down my back. all round over me and half down my back.
Wait. Hm. Hm. Yes. That's her perfume. Why she waved her hand. I Wait. Hm. Hm. Yes. That's her perfume. Why she waved her hand. I
leave you this to think of me when I'm far away on the pillow. What is it? leave you this to think of me when I'm far away on the pillow. What is it?
Heliotrope? No. Hyacinth? Hm. Roses, I think. She'd like scent of that Heliotrope? No. Hyacinth? Hm. Roses, I think. She'd like scent of that
kind. Sweet and cheap: soon sour. Why Molly likes opoponax. Suits her, kind. Sweet and cheap: soon sour. Why Molly likes opoponax. Suits her,
with a little jessamine mixed. Her high notes and her low notes. At the with a little jessamine mixed. Her high notes and her low notes. At the
dance night she met him, dance of the hours. Heat brought it out. She was dance night she met him, dance of the hours. Heat brought it out. She was
wearing her black and it had the perfume of the time before. Good wearing her black and it had the perfume of the time before. Good
conductor, is it? Or bad? Light too. Suppose there's some connection. For conductor, is it? Or bad? Light too. Suppose there's some connection. For
instance if you go into a cellar where it's dark. Mysterious thing too. instance if you go into a cellar where it's dark. Mysterious thing too.
Why did I smell it only now? Took its time in coming like herself, slow Why did I smell it only now? Took its time in coming like herself, slow
but sure. Suppose it's ever so many millions of tiny grains blown across. but sure. Suppose it's ever so many millions of tiny grains blown across.
Yes, it is. Because those spice islands, Cinghalese this morning, smell Yes, it is. Because those spice islands, Cinghalese this morning, smell
them leagues off. Tell you what it is. It's like a fine fine veil or web them leagues off. Tell you what it is. It's like a fine fine veil or web
they have all over the skin, fine like what do you call it gossamer, and they have all over the skin, fine like what do you call it gossamer, and
they're always spinning it out of them, fine as anything, like rainbow they're always spinning it out of them, fine as anything, like rainbow
colours without knowing it. Clings to everything she takes off. Vamp of colours without knowing it. Clings to everything she takes off. Vamp of
her stockings. Warm shoe. Stays. Drawers: little kick, taking them off. her stockings. Warm shoe. Stays. Drawers: little kick, taking them off.
Betty's joints are on the rack. Mother Shipton's prophecy that is about Betty's joints are on the rack. Mother Shipton's prophecy that is about
ships around they fly in the twinkling. No. Signs of rain it is. The royal ships around they fly in the twinkling. No. Signs of rain it is. The royal
reader. And distant hills seem coming nigh. reader. And distant hills seem coming nigh.
Howth. Bailey light. Two, four, six, eight, nine. See. Has to change or Howth. Bailey light. Two, four, six, eight, nine. See. Has to change or
they might think it a house. Wreckers. Grace Darling. People afraid of the they might think it a house. Wreckers. Grace Darling. People afraid of the
dark. Also glowworms, cyclists: lightingup time. Jewels diamonds flash dark. Also glowworms, cyclists: lightingup time. Jewels diamonds flash
better. Women. Light is a kind of reassuring. Not going to hurt you. better. Women. Light is a kind of reassuring. Not going to hurt you.
Better now of course than long ago. Country roads. Run you through the Better now of course than long ago. Country roads. Run you through the
small guts for nothing. Still two types there are you bob against. small guts for nothing. Still two types there are you bob against.
Scowl or smile. Pardon! Not at all. Best time to spray plants too in the Scowl or smile. Pardon! Not at all. Best time to spray plants too in the
shade after the sun. Some light still. Red rays are longest. Roygbiv shade after the sun. Some light still. Red rays are longest. Roygbiv
Vance taught us: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet. Vance taught us: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet.
A star I see. Venus? Can't tell yet. Two. When three it's night. Were A star I see. Venus? Can't tell yet. Two. When three it's night. Were
those nightclouds there all the time? Looks like a phantom ship. No. those nightclouds there all the time? Looks like a phantom ship. No.
Wait. Trees are they? An optical illusion. Mirage. Land of the setting Wait. Trees are they? An optical illusion. Mirage. Land of the setting
sun this. Homerule sun setting in the southeast. My native land, sun this. Homerule sun setting in the southeast. My native land,
goodnight. goodnight.
Dew falling. Bad for you, dear, to sit on that stone. Brings on white Dew falling. Bad for you, dear, to sit on that stone. Brings on white
fluxions. Never have little baby then less he was big strong fight his way fluxions. Never have little baby then less he was big strong fight his way
up through. Might get piles myself. Sticks too like a summer cold, sore on up through. Might get piles myself. Sticks too like a summer cold, sore on
name. Virag. (HE MURMURS PRIVATELY AND CONFIDENTIALLY) We are engaged you name. Virag. (HE MURMURS PRIVATELY AND CONFIDENTIALLY) We are engaged you
see, sergeant. Lady in the case. Love entanglement. (HE SHOULDERS THE see, sergeant. Lady in the case. Love entanglement. (HE SHOULDERS THE
SECOND WATCH GENTLY) Dash it all. It's a way we gallants have in the SECOND WATCH GENTLY) Dash it all. It's a way we gallants have in the
navy. Uniform that does it. (HE TURNS GRAVELY TO THE FIRST WATCH) Still, navy. Uniform that does it. (HE TURNS GRAVELY TO THE FIRST WATCH) Still,
of course, you do get your Waterloo sometimes. Drop in some evening and of course, you do get your Waterloo sometimes. Drop in some evening and
have a glass of old Burgundy. (TO THE SECOND WATCH GAILY) I'll introduce have a glass of old Burgundy. (TO THE SECOND WATCH GAILY) I'll introduce
you, inspector. She's game. Do it in the shake of a lamb's tail. you, inspector. She's game. Do it in the shake of a lamb's tail.
(A DARK MERCURIALISED FACE APPEARS, LEADING A VEILED FIGURE.) (A DARK MERCURIALISED FACE APPEARS, LEADING A VEILED FIGURE.)
THE DARK MERCURY: The Castle is looking for him. He was drummed out of THE DARK MERCURY: The Castle is looking for him. He was drummed out of
the army. the army.
MARTHA: (THICKVEILED, A CRIMSON HALTER ROUND HER NECK, A COPY OF THE MARTHA: (THICKVEILED, A CRIMSON HALTER ROUND HER NECK, A COPY OF THE
Irish Times IN HER HAND, IN TONE OF REPROACH, POINTING) Henry! Leopold! Irish Times IN HER HAND, IN TONE OF REPROACH, POINTING) Henry! Leopold!
Lionel, thou lost one! Clear my name. Lionel, thou lost one! Clear my name.
FIRST WATCH: (STERNLY) Come to the station. FIRST WATCH: (STERNLY) Come to the station.
BLOOM: (SCARED, HATS HIMSELF, STEPS BACK, THEN, PLUCKING AT HIS HEART AND BLOOM: (SCARED, HATS HIMSELF, STEPS BACK, THEN, PLUCKING AT HIS HEART AND
LIFTING HIS RIGHT FOREARM ON THE SQUARE, HE GIVES THE SIGN AND DUEGUARD LIFTING HIS RIGHT FOREARM ON THE SQUARE, HE GIVES THE SIGN AND DUEGUARD
OF FELLOWCRAFT) No, no, worshipful master, light of love. Mistaken OF FELLOWCRAFT) No, no, worshipful master, light of love. Mistaken
identity. The Lyons mail. Lesurques and Dubosc. You remember the Childs identity. The Lyons mail. Lesurques and Dubosc. You remember the Childs
fratricide case. We medical men. By striking him dead with a hatchet. I fratricide case. We medical men. By striking him dead with a hatchet. I
am wrongfully accused. Better one guilty escape than ninetynine am wrongfully accused. Better one guilty escape than ninetynine
wrongfully condemned. wrongfully condemned.
MARTHA: (SOBBING BEHIND HER VEIL) Breach of promise. My real name is MARTHA: (SOBBING BEHIND HER VEIL) Breach of promise. My real name is
Peggy Griffin. He wrote to me that he was miserable. I'll tell my Peggy Griffin. He wrote to me that he was miserable. I'll tell my
brother, the Bective rugger fullback, on you, heartless flirt. brother, the Bective rugger fullback, on you, heartless flirt.
BLOOM: (BEHIND HIS HAND) She's drunk. The woman is inebriated. (HE BLOOM: (BEHIND HIS HAND) She's drunk. The woman is inebriated. (HE
MURMURS VAGUELY THE PASS OF EPHRAIM) Shitbroleeth. MURMURS VAGUELY THE PASS OF EPHRAIM) Shitbroleeth.
SECOND WATCH: (TEARS IN HIS EYES, TO BLOOM) You ought to be thoroughly SECOND WATCH: (TEARS IN HIS EYES, TO BLOOM) You ought to be thoroughly
well ashamed of yourself. well ashamed of yourself.
BLOOM: Gentlemen of the jury, let me explain. A pure mare's nest. I am a BLOOM: Gentlemen of the jury, let me explain. A pure mare's nest. I am a
man misunderstood. I am being made a scapegoat of. I am a respectable man misunderstood. I am being made a scapegoat of. I am a respectable
married man, without a stain on my character. I live in Eccles street. My married man, without a stain on my character. I live in Eccles street. My
wife, I am the daughter of a most distinguished commander, a gallant wife, I am the daughter of a most distinguished commander, a gallant
upstanding gentleman, what do you call him, Majorgeneral Brian Tweedy, upstanding gentleman, what do you call him, Majorgeneral Brian Tweedy,
one of Britain's fighting men who helped to win our battles. Got his one of Britain's fighting men who helped to win our battles. Got his
majority for the heroic defence of Rorke's Drift. majority for the heroic defence of Rorke's Drift.
FIRST WATCH: Regiment. FIRST WATCH: Regiment.
BLOOM: (TURNS TO THE GALLERY) The royal Dublins, boys, the salt of the BLOOM: (TURNS TO THE GALLERY) The royal Dublins, boys, the salt of the
earth, known the world over. I think I see some old comrades in arms up earth, known the world over. I think I see some old comrades in arms up
there among you. The R. D. F., with our own Metropolitan police, there among you. The R. D. F., with our own Metropolitan police,
guardians of our homes, the pluckiest lads and the finest body of men, as guardians of our homes, the pluckiest lads and the finest body of men, as
physique, in the service of our sovereign. physique, in the service of our sovereign.
A VOICE: Turncoat! Up the Boers! Who booed Joe Chamberlain? A VOICE: Turncoat! Up the Boers! Who booed Joe Chamberlain?
BLOOM: (HIS HAND ON THE SHOULDER OF THE FIRST WATCH) My old dad too was a BLOOM: (HIS HAND ON THE SHOULDER OF THE FIRST WATCH) My old dad too was a
J. P. I'm as staunch a Britisher as you are, sir. I fought with the J. P. I'm as staunch a Britisher as you are, sir. I fought with the
colours for king and country in the absentminded war under general Gough colours for king and country in the absentminded war under general Gough
in the park and was disabled at Spion Kop and Bloemfontein, was mentioned in the park and was disabled at Spion Kop and Bloemfontein, was mentioned
in dispatches. I did all a white man could. (WITH QUIET FEELING) Jim in dispatches. I did all a white man could. (WITH QUIET FEELING) Jim
Bludso. Hold her nozzle again the bank. Bludso. Hold her nozzle again the bank.
FIRST WATCH: Profession or trade. FIRST WATCH: Profession or trade.
BLOOM: Well, I follow a literary occupation, author-journalist. In fact BLOOM: Well, I follow a literary occupation, author-journalist. In fact
we are just bringing out a collection of prize stories of which I am the we are just bringing out a collection of prize stories of which I am the
inventor, something that is an entirely new departure. I am connected inventor, something that is an entirely new departure. I am connected
with the British and Irish press. If you ring up ... with the British and Irish press. If you ring up ...
(MYLES CRAWFORD STRIDES OUT JERKILY, A QUILL BETWEEN HIS TEETH. HIS (MYLES CRAWFORD STRIDES OUT JERKILY, A QUILL BETWEEN HIS TEETH. HIS
SCARLET BEAK BLAZES WITHIN THE AUREOLE OF HIS STRAW HAT. HE DANGLES A SCARLET BEAK BLAZES WITHIN THE AUREOLE OF HIS STRAW HAT. HE DANGLES A
HANK OF SPANISH ONIONS IN ONE HAND AND HOLDS WITH THE OTHER HAND A HANK OF SPANISH ONIONS IN ONE HAND AND HOLDS WITH THE OTHER HAND A
TELEPHONE RECEIVER NOZZLE TO HIS EAR.) TELEPHONE RECEIVER NOZZLE TO HIS EAR.)
MYLES CRAWFORD: (HIS COCK'S WATTLES WAGGING) Hello, seventyseven MYLES CRAWFORD: (HIS COCK'S WATTLES WAGGING) Hello, seventyseven
eightfour. Hello. FREEMAN'S URINAL and WEEKLY ARSEWIPE here. Paralyse eightfour. Hello. FREEMAN'S URINAL and WEEKLY ARSEWIPE here. Paralyse
Europe. You which? Bluebags? Who writes? Is it Bloom? Europe. You which? Bluebags? Who writes? Is it Bloom?
(MR PHILIP BEAUFOY, PALEFACED, STANDS IN THE WITNESSBOX, IN ACCURATE (MR PHILIP BEAUFOY, PALEFACED, STANDS IN THE WITNESSBOX, IN ACCURATE
MORNING DRESS, OUTBREAST POCKET WITH PEAK OF HANDKERCHIEF SHOWING, MORNING DRESS, OUTBREAST POCKET WITH PEAK OF HANDKERCHIEF SHOWING,
CREASED LAVENDER TROUSERS AND PATENT BOOTS. HE CARRIES A LARGE PORTFOLIO CREASED LAVENDER TROUSERS AND PATENT BOOTS. HE CARRIES A LARGE PORTFOLIO
LABELLED Matcham's Masterstrokes.) LABELLED Matcham's Masterstrokes.)
BEAUFOY: (DRAWLS) No, you aren't. Not by a long shot if I know it. I BEAUFOY: (DRAWLS) No, you aren't. Not by a long shot if I know it. I
don't see it that's all. No born gentleman, no-one with the most don't see it that's all. No born gentleman, no-one with the most
rudimentary promptings of a gentleman would stoop to such particularly rudimentary promptings of a gentleman would stoop to such particularly
loathsome conduct. One of those, my lord. A plagiarist. A soapy sneak loathsome conduct. One of those, my lord. A plagiarist. A soapy sneak
masquerading as a litterateur. It's perfectly obvious that with the most masquerading as a litterateur. It's perfectly obvious that with the most
inherent baseness he has cribbed some of my bestselling copy, really inherent baseness he has cribbed some of my bestselling copy, really
gorgeous stuff, a perfect gem, the love passages in which are beneath gorgeous stuff, a perfect gem, the love passages in which are beneath
suspicion. The Beaufoy books of love and great possessions, with which suspicion. The Beaufoy books of love and great possessions, with which
your lordship is doubtless familiar, are a household word throughout the your lordship is doubtless familiar, are a household word throughout the
kingdom. kingdom.
BLOOM: (MURMURS WITH HANGDOG MEEKNESS GLUM) That bit about the laughing BLOOM: (MURMURS WITH HANGDOG MEEKNESS GLUM) That bit about the laughing
witch hand in hand I take exception to, if I may ... witch hand in hand I take exception to, if I may ...
BEAUFOY: (HIS LIP UPCURLED, SMILES SUPERCILIOUSLY ON THE COURT) You funny BEAUFOY: (HIS LIP UPCURLED, SMILES SUPERCILIOUSLY ON THE COURT) You funny
ass, you! You're too beastly awfully weird for words! I don't think you ass, you! You're too beastly awfully weird for words! I don't think you
need over excessively disincommodate yourself in that regard. My literary need over excessively disincommodate yourself in that regard. My literary
agent Mr J. B. Pinker is in attendance. I presume, my lord, we shall agent Mr J. B. Pinker is in attendance. I presume, my lord, we shall
receive the usual witnesses' fees, shan't we? We are considerably out of receive the usual witnesses' fees, shan't we? We are considerably out of
pocket over this bally pressman johnny, this jackdaw of Rheims, who has pocket over this bally pressman johnny, this jackdaw of Rheims, who has
not even been to a university. not even been to a university.
BLOOM: (INDISTINCTLY) University of life. Bad art. BLOOM: (INDISTINCTLY) University of life. Bad art.
BEAUFOY: (SHOUTS) It's a damnably foul lie, showing the moral rottenness BEAUFOY: (SHOUTS) It's a damnably foul lie, showing the moral rottenness
of the man! (HE EXTENDS HIS PORTFOLIO) We have here damning evidence, the of the man! (HE EXTENDS HIS PORTFOLIO) We have here damning evidence, the
CORPUS DELICTI, my lord, a specimen of my maturer work disfigured by the CORPUS DELICTI, my lord, a specimen of my maturer work disfigured by the
hallmark of the beast. hallmark of the beast.
A VOICE FROM THE GALLERY: A VOICE FROM THE GALLERY:
    Moses, Moses, king of the jews,     Moses, Moses, king of the jews,
    Wiped his arse in the Daily News.     Wiped his arse in the Daily News.
BLOOM: (BRAVELY) Overdrawn. BLOOM: (BRAVELY) Overdrawn.
BEAUFOY: You low cad! You ought to be ducked in the horsepond, you BEAUFOY: You low cad! You ought to be ducked in the horsepond, you
rotter! (TO THE COURT) Why, look at the man's private life! Leading a rotter! (TO THE COURT) Why, look at the man's private life! Leading a
quadruple existence! Street angel and house devil. Not fit to be quadruple existence! Street angel and house devil. Not fit to be
mentioned in mixed society! The archconspirator of the age! mentioned in mixed society! The archconspirator of the age!
BLOOM: (TO THE COURT) And he, a bachelor, how ... BLOOM: (TO THE COURT) And he, a bachelor, how ...
FIRST WATCH: The King versus Bloom. Call the woman Driscoll. FIRST WATCH: The King versus Bloom. Call the woman Driscoll.
THE CRIER: Mary Driscoll, scullerymaid! THE CRIER: Mary Driscoll, scullerymaid!
(MARY DRISCOLL, A SLIPSHOD SERVANT GIRL, APPROACHES. SHE HAS A BUCKET ON (MARY DRISCOLL, A SLIPSHOD SERVANT GIRL, APPROACHES. SHE HAS A BUCKET ON
THE CROOK OF HER ARM AND A SCOURINGBRUSH IN HER HAND.) THE CROOK OF HER ARM AND A SCOURINGBRUSH IN HER HAND.)
SECOND WATCH: Another! Are you of the unfortunate class? SECOND WATCH: Another! Are you of the unfortunate class?
MARY DRISCOLL: (INDIGNANTLY) I'm not a bad one. I bear a respectable MARY DRISCOLL: (INDIGNANTLY) I'm not a bad one. I bear a respectable
character and was four months in my last place. I was in a situation, six character and was four months in my last place. I was in a situation, six
pounds a year and my chances with Fridays out and I had to leave owing to pounds a year and my chances with Fridays out and I had to leave owing to
his carryings on. his carryings on.
FIRST WATCH: What do you tax him with? FIRST WATCH: What do you tax him with?
MARY DRISCOLL: He made a certain suggestion but I thought more of myself MARY DRISCOLL: He made a certain suggestion but I thought more of myself
as poor as I am. as poor as I am.
BLOOM: (IN HOUSEJACKET OF RIPPLECLOTH, FLANNEL TROUSERS, HEELLESS BLOOM: (IN HOUSEJACKET OF RIPPLECLOTH, FLANNEL TROUSERS, HEELLESS
SLIPPERS, UNSHAVEN, HIS HAIR RUMPLED: SOFTLY) I treated you white. I gave SLIPPERS, UNSHAVEN, HIS HAIR RUMPLED: SOFTLY) I treated you white. I gave
you mementos, smart emerald garters far above your station. Incautiously you mementos, smart emerald garters far above your station. Incautiously
I took your part when you were accused of pilfering. There's a medium in I took your part when you were accused of pilfering. There's a medium in
all things. Play cricket. all things. Play cricket.
MARY DRISCOLL: (EXCITEDLY) As God is looking down on me this night if MARY DRISCOLL: (EXCITEDLY) As God is looking down on me this night if
ever I laid a hand to them oysters! ever I laid a hand to them oysters!
FIRST WATCH: The offence complained of? Did something happen? FIRST WATCH: The offence complained of? Did something happen?
MARY DRISCOLL: He surprised me in the rere of the premises, Your honour, MARY DRISCOLL: He surprised me in the rere of the premises, Your honour,
when the missus was out shopping one morning with a request for a safety when the missus was out shopping one morning with a request for a safety
pin. He held me and I was discoloured in four places as a result. And he pin. He held me and I was discoloured in four places as a result. And he
interfered twict with my clothing. interfered twict with my clothing.
BLOOM: She counterassaulted. BLOOM: She counterassaulted.
MARY DRISCOLL: (SCORNFULLY) I had more respect for the scouringbrush, so MARY DRISCOLL: (SCORNFULLY) I had more respect for the scouringbrush, so
I had. I remonstrated with him, Your lord, and he remarked: keep it I had. I remonstrated with him, Your lord, and he remarked: keep it
quiet. quiet.
(GENERAL LAUGHTER.) (GENERAL LAUGHTER.)
GEORGE FOTTRELL: (CLERK OF THE CROWN AND PEACE, RESONANTLY) Order in GEORGE FOTTRELL: (CLERK OF THE CROWN AND PEACE, RESONANTLY) Order in
court! The accused will now make a bogus statement. court! The accused will now make a bogus statement.
(BLOOM, PLEADING NOT GUILTY AND HOLDING A FULLBLOWN WATERLILY, BEGINS A (BLOOM, PLEADING NOT GUILTY AND HOLDING A FULLBLOWN WATERLILY, BEGINS A
LONG UNINTELLIGIBLE SPEECH. THEY WOULD HEAR WHAT COUNSEL HAD TO SAY IN LONG UNINTELLIGIBLE SPEECH. THEY WOULD HEAR WHAT COUNSEL HAD TO SAY IN
DEADLY AGONY. ABOUT NOON. LOVE OR BURGUNDY. YES, SOME SPINACH. CRUCIAL DEADLY AGONY. ABOUT NOON. LOVE OR BURGUNDY. YES, SOME SPINACH. CRUCIAL
saw he understood or felt what a woman is and I knew I could always get saw he understood or felt what a woman is and I knew I could always get
round him and I gave him all the pleasure I could leading him on till he round him and I gave him all the pleasure I could leading him on till he
asked me to say yes and I wouldnt answer first only looked out over the asked me to say yes and I wouldnt answer first only looked out over the
sea and the sky I was thinking of so many things he didnt know of Mulvey sea and the sky I was thinking of so many things he didnt know of Mulvey
and Mr Stanhope and Hester and father and old captain Groves and the and Mr Stanhope and Hester and father and old captain Groves and the
J. J. O'MOLLOY: (IN BARRISTER'S GREY WIG AND STUFFGOWN, SPEAKING WITH A J. J. O'MOLLOY: (IN BARRISTER'S GREY WIG AND STUFFGOWN, SPEAKING WITH A
VOICE OF PAINED PROTEST) This is no place for indecent levity at the VOICE OF PAINED PROTEST) This is no place for indecent levity at the
expense of an erring mortal disguised in liquor. We are not in a expense of an erring mortal disguised in liquor. We are not in a
beargarden nor at an Oxford rag nor is this a travesty of justice. My beargarden nor at an Oxford rag nor is this a travesty of justice. My
client is an infant, a poor foreign immigrant who started scratch as a client is an infant, a poor foreign immigrant who started scratch as a
stowaway and is now trying to turn an honest penny. The trumped up stowaway and is now trying to turn an honest penny. The trumped up
misdemeanour was due to a momentary aberration of heredity, brought on by misdemeanour was due to a momentary aberration of heredity, brought on by
hallucination, such familiarities as the alleged guilty occurrence being hallucination, such familiarities as the alleged guilty occurrence being
quite permitted in my client's native place, the land of the Pharaoh. quite permitted in my client's native place, the land of the Pharaoh.
PRIMA FACIE, I put it to you that there was no attempt at carnally PRIMA FACIE, I put it to you that there was no attempt at carnally
knowing. Intimacy did not occur and the offence complained of by knowing. Intimacy did not occur and the offence complained of by
Driscoll, that her virtue was solicited, was not repeated. I would deal Driscoll, that her virtue was solicited, was not repeated. I would deal
in especial with atavism. There have been cases of shipwreck and in especial with atavism. There have been cases of shipwreck and
somnambulism in my client's family. If the accused could speak he could a somnambulism in my client's family. If the accused could speak he could a
tale unfold--one of the strangest that have ever been narrated between tale unfold--one of the strangest that have ever been narrated between
the covers of a book. He himself, my lord, is a physical wreck from the covers of a book. He himself, my lord, is a physical wreck from
cobbler's weak chest. His submission is that he is of Mongolian cobbler's weak chest. His submission is that he is of Mongolian
extraction and irresponsible for his actions. Not all there, in fact. extraction and irresponsible for his actions. Not all there, in fact.
BLOOM: (BAREFOOT, PIGEONBREASTED, IN LASCAR'S VEST AND TROUSERS, BLOOM: (BAREFOOT, PIGEONBREASTED, IN LASCAR'S VEST AND TROUSERS,
APOLOGETIC TOES TURNED IN, OPENS HIS TINY MOLE'S EYES AND LOOKS ABOUT HIM APOLOGETIC TOES TURNED IN, OPENS HIS TINY MOLE'S EYES AND LOOKS ABOUT HIM
DAZEDLY, PASSING A SLOW HAND ACROSS HIS FOREHEAD. THEN HE HITCHES HIS DAZEDLY, PASSING A SLOW HAND ACROSS HIS FOREHEAD. THEN HE HITCHES HIS
BELT SAILOR FASHION AND WITH A SHRUG OF ORIENTAL OBEISANCE SALUTES THE BELT SAILOR FASHION AND WITH A SHRUG OF ORIENTAL OBEISANCE SALUTES THE
COURT, POINTING ONE THUMB HEAVENWARD.) Him makee velly muchee fine night. COURT, POINTING ONE THUMB HEAVENWARD.) Him makee velly muchee fine night.
(HE BEGINS TO LILT SIMPLY) (HE BEGINS TO LILT SIMPLY)
    Li li poo lil chile     Li li poo lil chile
    Blingee pigfoot evly night     Blingee pigfoot evly night
    Payee two shilly ...     Payee two shilly ...
(HE IS HOWLED DOWN.) (HE IS HOWLED DOWN.)
J. J. O'MOLLOY: (HOTLY TO THE POPULACE) This is a lonehand fight. By J. J. O'MOLLOY: (HOTLY TO THE POPULACE) This is a lonehand fight. By
Hades, I will not have any client of mine gagged and badgered in this Hades, I will not have any client of mine gagged and badgered in this
fashion by a pack of curs and laughing hyenas. The Mosaic code has fashion by a pack of curs and laughing hyenas. The Mosaic code has
superseded the law of the jungle. I say it and I say it emphatically, superseded the law of the jungle. I say it and I say it emphatically,
without wishing for one moment to defeat the ends of justice, accused was without wishing for one moment to defeat the ends of justice, accused was
not accessory before the act and prosecutrix has not been tampered with. not accessory before the act and prosecutrix has not been tampered with.
The young person was treated by defendant as if she were his very own The young person was treated by defendant as if she were his very own
daughter. (BLOOM TAKES J. J. O'MOLLOY'S HAND AND RAISES IT TO HIS LIPS.) daughter. (BLOOM TAKES J. J. O'MOLLOY'S HAND AND RAISES IT TO HIS LIPS.)
I shall call rebutting evidence to prove up to the hilt that the hidden I shall call rebutting evidence to prove up to the hilt that the hidden
hand is again at its old game. When in doubt persecute Bloom. My client, hand is again at its old game. When in doubt persecute Bloom. My client,
an innately bashful man, would be the last man in the world to do an innately bashful man, would be the last man in the world to do
anything ungentlemanly which injured modesty could object to or cast a anything ungentlemanly which injured modesty could object to or cast a
stone at a girl who took the wrong turning when some dastard, responsible stone at a girl who took the wrong turning when some dastard, responsible
for her condition, had worked his own sweet will on her. He wants to go for her condition, had worked his own sweet will on her. He wants to go
straight. I regard him as the whitest man I know. He is down on his luck straight. I regard him as the whitest man I know. He is down on his luck
at present owing to the mortgaging of his extensive property at Agendath at present owing to the mortgaging of his extensive property at Agendath
Netaim in faraway Asia Minor, slides of which will now be shown. (TO Netaim in faraway Asia Minor, slides of which will now be shown. (TO
BLOOM) I suggest that you will do the handsome thing. BLOOM) I suggest that you will do the handsome thing.
BLOOM: A penny in the pound. BLOOM: A penny in the pound.
(THE IMAGE OF THE LAKE OF KINNERETH WITH BLURRED CATTLE CROPPING IN (THE IMAGE OF THE LAKE OF KINNERETH WITH BLURRED CATTLE CROPPING IN
SILVER HAZE IS PROJECTED ON THE WALL. MOSES DLUGACZ, FERRETEYED ALBINO, SILVER HAZE IS PROJECTED ON THE WALL. MOSES DLUGACZ, FERRETEYED ALBINO,
IN BLUE DUNGAREES, STANDS UP IN THE GALLERY, HOLDING IN EACH HAND AN IN BLUE DUNGAREES, STANDS UP IN THE GALLERY, HOLDING IN EACH HAND AN
ORANGE CITRON AND A PORK KIDNEY.) ORANGE CITRON AND A PORK KIDNEY.)
DLUGACZ: (HOARSELY) Bleibtreustrasse, Berlin, W.13. DLUGACZ: (HOARSELY) Bleibtreustrasse, Berlin, W.13.
(J. J. O'MOLLOY STEPS ON TO A LOW PLINTH AND HOLDS THE LAPEL OF HIS COAT (J. J. O'MOLLOY STEPS ON TO A LOW PLINTH AND HOLDS THE LAPEL OF HIS COAT
WITH SOLEMNITY. HIS FACE LENGTHENS, GROWS PALE AND BEARDED, WITH SUNKEN WITH SOLEMNITY. HIS FACE LENGTHENS, GROWS PALE AND BEARDED, WITH SUNKEN
EYES, THE BLOTCHES OF PHTHISIS AND HECTIC CHEEKBONES OF JOHN F. TAYLOR. EYES, THE BLOTCHES OF PHTHISIS AND HECTIC CHEEKBONES OF JOHN F. TAYLOR.
HE APPLIES HIS HANDKERCHIEF TO HIS MOUTH AND SCRUTINISES THE GALLOPING HE APPLIES HIS HANDKERCHIEF TO HIS MOUTH AND SCRUTINISES THE GALLOPING
TIDE OF ROSEPINK BLOOD.) TIDE OF ROSEPINK BLOOD.)
J.J.O'MOLLOY: (ALMOST VOICELESSLY) Excuse me. I am suffering from a J.J.O'MOLLOY: (ALMOST VOICELESSLY) Excuse me. I am suffering from a
severe chill, have recently come from a sickbed. A few wellchosen words. severe chill, have recently come from a sickbed. A few wellchosen words.
(HE ASSUMES THE AVINE HEAD, FOXY MOUSTACHE AND PROBOSCIDAL ELOQUENCE OF (HE ASSUMES THE AVINE HEAD, FOXY MOUSTACHE AND PROBOSCIDAL ELOQUENCE OF
of the wild wet west who is known by the euphonious appellation of the of the wild wet west who is known by the euphonious appellation of the
O'Madden Burke. O'Madden Burke.
After an interval Mr Dedalus raised his grog and After an interval Mr Dedalus raised his grog and
--That must have been highly diverting, said he. I see. --That must have been highly diverting, said he. I see.
He see. He drank. With faraway mourning mountain eye. Set down He see. He drank. With faraway mourning mountain eye. Set down
his glass. his glass.
He looked towards the saloon door. He looked towards the saloon door.
--I see you have moved the piano. --I see you have moved the piano.
--The tuner was in today, miss Douce replied, tuning it for the smoking --The tuner was in today, miss Douce replied, tuning it for the smoking
concert and I never heard such an exquisite player. concert and I never heard such an exquisite player.
--Is that a fact? --Is that a fact?
--Didn't he, miss Kennedy? The real classical, you know. And blind too, --Didn't he, miss Kennedy? The real classical, you know. And blind too,
poor fellow. Not twenty I'm sure he was. poor fellow. Not twenty I'm sure he was.
--Is that a fact? Mr Dedalus said. --Is that a fact? Mr Dedalus said.
He drank and strayed away. He drank and strayed away.
--So sad to look at his face, miss Douce condoled. --So sad to look at his face, miss Douce condoled.
God's curse on bitch's bastard. God's curse on bitch's bastard.
Tink to her pity cried a diner's bell. To the door of the bar and Tink to her pity cried a diner's bell. To the door of the bar and
diningroom came bald Pat, came bothered Pat, came Pat, waiter of diningroom came bald Pat, came bothered Pat, came Pat, waiter of
Ormond. Lager for diner. Lager without alacrity she served. Ormond. Lager for diner. Lager without alacrity she served.
With patience Lenehan waited for Boylan with impatience, for With patience Lenehan waited for Boylan with impatience, for
jinglejaunty blazes boy. jinglejaunty blazes boy.
Upholding the lid he (who?) gazed in the coffin (coffin?) at the Upholding the lid he (who?) gazed in the coffin (coffin?) at the
oblique triple (piano!) wires. He pressed (the same who pressed oblique triple (piano!) wires. He pressed (the same who pressed
indulgently her hand), soft pedalling, a triple of keys to see the indulgently her hand), soft pedalling, a triple of keys to see the
thicknesses of felt advancing, to hear the muffled hammerfall in action. thicknesses of felt advancing, to hear the muffled hammerfall in action.
Two sheets cream vellum paper one reserve two envelopes when I was Two sheets cream vellum paper one reserve two envelopes when I was
in Wisdom Hely's wise Bloom in Daly's Henry Flower bought. Are you not in Wisdom Hely's wise Bloom in Daly's Henry Flower bought. Are you not
happy in your home? Flower to console me and a pin cuts lo. Means happy in your home? Flower to console me and a pin cuts lo. Means
something, language of flow. Was it a daisy? Innocence that is. something, language of flow. Was it a daisy? Innocence that is.
Respectable girl meet after mass. Thanks awfully muchly. Wise Bloom eyed Respectable girl meet after mass. Thanks awfully muchly. Wise Bloom eyed
on the door a poster, a swaying mermaid smoking mid nice waves. Smoke on the door a poster, a swaying mermaid smoking mid nice waves. Smoke
mermaids, coolest whiff of all. Hair streaming: lovelorn. For some man. mermaids, coolest whiff of all. Hair streaming: lovelorn. For some man.
For Raoul. He eyed and saw afar on Essex bridge a gay hat riding on a For Raoul. He eyed and saw afar on Essex bridge a gay hat riding on a
jaunting car. It is. Again. Third time. Coincidence. jaunting car. It is. Again. Third time. Coincidence.
Jingling on supple rubbers it jaunted from the bridge to Ormond Jingling on supple rubbers it jaunted from the bridge to Ormond
quay. Follow. Risk it. Go quick. At four. Near now. Out. quay. Follow. Risk it. Go quick. At four. Near now. Out.
--Twopence, sir, the shopgirl dared to say. --Twopence, sir, the shopgirl dared to say.
--Aha ... I was forgetting ... Excuse ... --Aha ... I was forgetting ... Excuse ...
--And four. --And four.
At four she. Winsomely she on Bloohimwhom smiled. Bloo smi qui At four she. Winsomely she on Bloohimwhom smiled. Bloo smi qui
go. Ternoon. Think you're the only pebble on the beach? Does that to all. go. Ternoon. Think you're the only pebble on the beach? Does that to all.
For men. For men.
In drowsy silence gold bent on her page. In drowsy silence gold bent on her page.
From the saloon a call came, long in dying. That was a tuningfork the From the saloon a call came, long in dying. That was a tuningfork the
tuner had that he forgot that he now struck. A call again. That he now tuner had that he forgot that he now struck. A call again. That he now
poised that it now throbbed. You hear? It throbbed, pure, purer, softly poised that it now throbbed. You hear? It throbbed, pure, purer, softly
and softlier, its buzzing prongs. Longer in dying call. and softlier, its buzzing prongs. Longer in dying call.
Pat paid for diner's popcorked bottle: and over tumbler, tray and Pat paid for diner's popcorked bottle: and over tumbler, tray and
popcorked bottle ere he went he whispered, bald and bothered, with Miss popcorked bottle ere he went he whispered, bald and bothered, with Miss
Douce. Douce.
--THE BRIGHT STARS FADE ... --THE BRIGHT STARS FADE ...
A voiceless song sang from within, singing: A voiceless song sang from within, singing:
-- ... THE MORN IS BREAKING. -- ... THE MORN IS BREAKING.
A duodene of birdnotes chirruped bright treble answer under sensitive A duodene of birdnotes chirruped bright treble answer under sensitive
hands. Brightly the keys, all twinkling, linked, all harpsichording, hands. Brightly the keys, all twinkling, linked, all harpsichording,
called to a voice to sing the strain of dewy morn, of youth, of love's called to a voice to sing the strain of dewy morn, of youth, of love's
leavetaking, life's, love's morn. leavetaking, life's, love's morn.
--THE DEWDROPS PEARL ... --THE DEWDROPS PEARL ...
Lenehan's lips over the counter lisped a low whistle of decoy. Lenehan's lips over the counter lisped a low whistle of decoy.
--But look this way, he said, rose of Castile. --But look this way, he said, rose of Castile.
Jingle jaunted by the curb and stopped. Jingle jaunted by the curb and stopped.
She rose and closed her reading, rose of Castile: fretted, forlorn, She rose and closed her reading, rose of Castile: fretted, forlorn,
dreamily rose. dreamily rose.
--Did she fall or was she pushed? he asked her. --Did she fall or was she pushed? he asked her.
She answered, slighting: She answered, slighting:
--Ask no questions and you'll hear no lies. --Ask no questions and you'll hear no lies.
Like lady, ladylike. Like lady, ladylike.
Blazes Boylan's smart tan shoes creaked on the barfloor where he Blazes Boylan's smart tan shoes creaked on the barfloor where he
strode. Yes, gold from anear by bronze from afar. Lenehan heard and knew strode. Yes, gold from anear by bronze from afar. Lenehan heard and knew
and hailed him: and hailed him:
--See the conquering hero comes. --See the conquering hero comes.
Between the car and window, warily walking, went Bloom, Between the car and window, warily walking, went Bloom,
unconquered hero. See me he might. The seat he sat on: warm. Black wary unconquered hero. See me he might. The seat he sat on: warm. Black wary
hecat walked towards Richie Goulding's legal bag, lifted aloft, saluting. hecat walked towards Richie Goulding's legal bag, lifted aloft, saluting.
--AND I FROM THEE ... --AND I FROM THEE ...
--I heard you were round, said Blazes Boylan. --I heard you were round, said Blazes Boylan.
He touched to fair miss Kennedy a rim of his slanted straw. She He touched to fair miss Kennedy a rim of his slanted straw. She
smiled on him. But sister bronze outsmiled her, preening for him her smiled on him. But sister bronze outsmiled her, preening for him her
richer hair, a bosom and a rose. richer hair, a bosom and a rose.
Smart Boylan bespoke potions. Smart Boylan bespoke potions.
--What's your cry? Glass of bitter? Glass of bitter, please, and a sloegin --What's your cry? Glass of bitter? Glass of bitter, please, and a sloegin
for me. Wire in yet? for me. Wire in yet?
Not yet. At four she. Who said four? Not yet. At four she. Who said four?
Cowley's red lugs and bulging apple in the door of the sheriff's office. Cowley's red lugs and bulging apple in the door of the sheriff's office.
Avoid. Goulding a chance. What is he doing in the Ormond? Car waiting. Avoid. Goulding a chance. What is he doing in the Ormond? Car waiting.
Wait. Wait.
Hello. Where off to? Something to eat? I too was just. In here. What, Hello. Where off to? Something to eat? I too was just. In here. What,
Ormond? Best value in Dublin. Is that so? Diningroom. Sit tight there. Ormond? Best value in Dublin. Is that so? Diningroom. Sit tight there.
See, not be seen. I think I'll join you. Come on. Richie led on. Bloom See, not be seen. I think I'll join you. Come on. Richie led on. Bloom
followed bag. Dinner fit for a prince. followed bag. Dinner fit for a prince.
Miss Douce reached high to take a flagon, stretching her satin arm, Miss Douce reached high to take a flagon, stretching her satin arm,
her bust, that all but burst, so high. her bust, that all but burst, so high.
--O! O! jerked Lenehan, gasping at each stretch. O! --O! O! jerked Lenehan, gasping at each stretch. O!
But easily she seized her prey and led it low in triumph. But easily she seized her prey and led it low in triumph.
--Why don't you grow? asked Blazes Boylan. --Why don't you grow? asked Blazes Boylan.
Shebronze, dealing from her oblique jar thick syrupy liquor for his Shebronze, dealing from her oblique jar thick syrupy liquor for his
lips, looked as it flowed (flower in his coat: who gave him?), and lips, looked as it flowed (flower in his coat: who gave him?), and
syrupped with her voice: syrupped with her voice:
--Fine goods in small parcels. --Fine goods in small parcels.
That is to say she. Neatly she poured slowsyrupy sloe. That is to say she. Neatly she poured slowsyrupy sloe.
--Here's fortune, Blazes said. --Here's fortune, Blazes said.
He pitched a broad coin down. Coin rang. He pitched a broad coin down. Coin rang.
--Hold on, said Lenehan, till I ... --Hold on, said Lenehan, till I ...
--Fortune, he wished, lifting his bubbled ale. --Fortune, he wished, lifting his bubbled ale.
--Sceptre will win in a canter, he said. --Sceptre will win in a canter, he said.
--I plunged a bit, said Boylan winking and drinking. Not on my own, you --I plunged a bit, said Boylan winking and drinking. Not on my own, you
know. Fancy of a friend of mine. know. Fancy of a friend of mine.
Lenehan still drank and grinned at his tilted ale and at miss Douce's Lenehan still drank and grinned at his tilted ale and at miss Douce's
lips that all but hummed, not shut, the oceansong her lips had trilled. lips that all but hummed, not shut, the oceansong her lips had trilled.
Idolores. The eastern seas. Idolores. The eastern seas.
Clock whirred. Miss Kennedy passed their way (flower, wonder who Clock whirred. Miss Kennedy passed their way (flower, wonder who
gave), bearing away teatray. Clock clacked. gave), bearing away teatray. Clock clacked.
Miss Douce took Boylan's coin, struck boldly the cashregister. It Miss Douce took Boylan's coin, struck boldly the cashregister. It
clanged. Clock clacked. Fair one of Egypt teased and sorted in the till clanged. Clock clacked. Fair one of Egypt teased and sorted in the till
and hummed and handed coins in change. Look to the west. A clack. For me. and hummed and handed coins in change. Look to the west. A clack. For me.
--What time is that? asked Blazes Boylan. Four? --What time is that? asked Blazes Boylan. Four?
O'clock. O'clock.
Lenehan, small eyes ahunger on her humming, bust ahumming, Lenehan, small eyes ahunger on her humming, bust ahumming,
tugged Blazes Boylan's elbowsleeve. tugged Blazes Boylan's elbowsleeve.
--Let's hear the time, he said. --Let's hear the time, he said.
The bag of Goulding, Collis, Ward led Bloom by ryebloom flowered The bag of Goulding, Collis, Ward led Bloom by ryebloom flowered
tables. Aimless he chose with agitated aim, bald Pat attending, a table tables. Aimless he chose with agitated aim, bald Pat attending, a table
near the door. Be near. At four. Has he forgotten? Perhaps a trick. Not near the door. Be near. At four. Has he forgotten? Perhaps a trick. Not
come: whet appetite. I couldn't do. Wait, wait. Pat, waiter, waited. come: whet appetite. I couldn't do. Wait, wait. Pat, waiter, waited.
Sparkling bronze azure eyed Blazure's skyblue bow and eyes. Sparkling bronze azure eyed Blazure's skyblue bow and eyes.
--Go on, pressed Lenehan. There's no-one. He never heard. --Go on, pressed Lenehan. There's no-one. He never heard.
-- ... TO FLORA'S LIPS DID HIE. -- ... TO FLORA'S LIPS DID HIE.
High, a high note pealed in the treble clear. High, a high note pealed in the treble clear.
Bronzedouce communing with her rose that sank and rose sought Bronzedouce communing with her rose that sank and rose sought
Blazes Boylan's flower and eyes. Blazes Boylan's flower and eyes.
--Please, please. --Please, please.
He pleaded over returning phrases of avowal. He pleaded over returning phrases of avowal.
--I COULD NOT LEAVE THEE ... --I COULD NOT LEAVE THEE ...
--Afterwits, miss Douce promised coyly. --Afterwits, miss Douce promised coyly.
--No, now, urged Lenehan. SONNEZLACLOCHE! O do! There's no-one. --No, now, urged Lenehan. SONNEZLACLOCHE! O do! There's no-one.
She looked. Quick. Miss Kenn out of earshot. Sudden bent. Two She looked. Quick. Miss Kenn out of earshot. Sudden bent. Two
kindling faces watched her bend. kindling faces watched her bend.
Quavering the chords strayed from the air, found it again, lost chord, Quavering the chords strayed from the air, found it again, lost chord,
and lost and found it, faltering. and lost and found it, faltering.
--Go on! Do! SONNEZ! --Go on! Do! SONNEZ!
Bending, she nipped a peak of skirt above her knee. Delayed. Taunted Bending, she nipped a peak of skirt above her knee. Delayed. Taunted
them still, bending, suspending, with wilful eyes. them still, bending, suspending, with wilful eyes.
--SONNEZ! --SONNEZ!
Smack. She set free sudden in rebound her nipped elastic garter Smack. She set free sudden in rebound her nipped elastic garter
smackwarm against her smackable a woman's warmhosed thigh. smackwarm against her smackable a woman's warmhosed thigh.
--LA CLOCHE! cried gleeful Lenehan. Trained by owner. No sawdust there. --LA CLOCHE! cried gleeful Lenehan. Trained by owner. No sawdust there.
She smilesmirked supercilious (wept! aren't men?), but, lightward She smilesmirked supercilious (wept! aren't men?), but, lightward
gliding, mild she smiled on Boylan. gliding, mild she smiled on Boylan.
--You're the essence of vulgarity, she in gliding said. --You're the essence of vulgarity, she in gliding said.
Boylan, eyed, eyed. Tossed to fat lips his chalice, drank off his chalice Boylan, eyed, eyed. Tossed to fat lips his chalice, drank off his chalice
tiny, sucking the last fat violet syrupy drops. His spellbound eyes went tiny, sucking the last fat violet syrupy drops. His spellbound eyes went
after, after her gliding head as it went down the bar by mirrors, gilded after, after her gliding head as it went down the bar by mirrors, gilded
arch for ginger ale, hock and claret glasses shimmering, a spiky shell, arch for ginger ale, hock and claret glasses shimmering, a spiky shell,
where it concerted, mirrored, bronze with sunnier bronze. where it concerted, mirrored, bronze with sunnier bronze.
Yes, bronze from anearby. Yes, bronze from anearby.
-- ... SWEETHEART, GOODBYE! -- ... SWEETHEART, GOODBYE!
--I'm off, said Boylan with impatience. --I'm off, said Boylan with impatience.
He slid his chalice brisk away, grasped his change. He slid his chalice brisk away, grasped his change.
--Wait a shake, begged Lenehan, drinking quickly. I wanted to tell you. --Wait a shake, begged Lenehan, drinking quickly. I wanted to tell you.
Tom Rochford ... Tom Rochford ...
--Come on to blazes, said Blazes Boylan, going. --Come on to blazes, said Blazes Boylan, going.
Lenehan gulped to go. Lenehan gulped to go.
--Got the horn or what? he said. Wait. I'm coming. --Got the horn or what? he said. Wait. I'm coming.
He followed the hasty creaking shoes but stood by nimbly by the He followed the hasty creaking shoes but stood by nimbly by the
threshold, saluting forms, a bulky with a slender. threshold, saluting forms, a bulky with a slender.
--How do you do, Mr Dollard? --How do you do, Mr Dollard?
--Eh? How do? How do? Ben Dollard's vague bass answered, turning an --Eh? How do? How do? Ben Dollard's vague bass answered, turning an
instant from Father Cowley's woe. He won't give you any trouble, Bob. Alf instant from Father Cowley's woe. He won't give you any trouble, Bob. Alf
Bergan will speak to the long fellow. We'll put a barleystraw in that Bergan will speak to the long fellow. We'll put a barleystraw in that
Judas Iscariot's ear this time. Judas Iscariot's ear this time.
Sighing Mr Dedalus came through the saloon, a finger soothing an Sighing Mr Dedalus came through the saloon, a finger soothing an
eyelid. eyelid.
--Hoho, we will, Ben Dollard yodled jollily. Come on, Simon. Give us a --Hoho, we will, Ben Dollard yodled jollily. Come on, Simon. Give us a
ditty. We heard the piano. ditty. We heard the piano.
Bald Pat, bothered waiter, waited for drink orders. Power for Richie. Bald Pat, bothered waiter, waited for drink orders. Power for Richie.
And Bloom? Let me see. Not make him walk twice. His corns. Four now. And Bloom? Let me see. Not make him walk twice. His corns. Four now.
How warm this black is. Course nerves a bit. Refracts (is it?) heat. Let How warm this black is. Course nerves a bit. Refracts (is it?) heat. Let
me see. Cider. Yes, bottle of cider. me see. Cider. Yes, bottle of cider.
--What's that? Mr Dedalus said. I was only vamping, man. --What's that? Mr Dedalus said. I was only vamping, man.
--Come on, come on, Ben Dollard called. Begone dull care. Come, Bob. --Come on, come on, Ben Dollard called. Begone dull care. Come, Bob.
He ambled Dollard, bulky slops, before them (hold that fellow with He ambled Dollard, bulky slops, before them (hold that fellow with
the: hold him now) into the saloon. He plumped him Dollard on the stool. the: hold him now) into the saloon. He plumped him Dollard on the stool.
His gouty paws plumped chords. Plumped, stopped abrupt. His gouty paws plumped chords. Plumped, stopped abrupt.
Bald Pat in the doorway met tealess gold returning. Bothered, he Bald Pat in the doorway met tealess gold returning. Bothered, he
wanted Power and cider. Bronze by the window, watched, bronze from wanted Power and cider. Bronze by the window, watched, bronze from
afar. afar.
Jingle a tinkle jaunted. Jingle a tinkle jaunted.
Bloom heard a jing, a little sound. He's off. Light sob of breath Bloom Bloom heard a jing, a little sound. He's off. Light sob of breath Bloom
sighed on the silent bluehued flowers. Jingling. He's gone. Jingle. Hear. sighed on the silent bluehued flowers. Jingling. He's gone. Jingle. Hear.
--Love and War, Ben, Mr Dedalus said. God be with old times. --Love and War, Ben, Mr Dedalus said. God be with old times.
Miss Douce's brave eyes, unregarded, turned from the crossblind, Miss Douce's brave eyes, unregarded, turned from the crossblind,
smitten by sunlight. Gone. Pensive (who knows?), smitten (the smiting smitten by sunlight. Gone. Pensive (who knows?), smitten (the smiting
light), she lowered the dropblind with a sliding cord. She drew down light), she lowered the dropblind with a sliding cord. She drew down
pensive (why did he go so quick when I?) about her bronze, over the bar pensive (why did he go so quick when I?) about her bronze, over the bar
where bald stood by sister gold, inexquisite contrast, contrast where bald stood by sister gold, inexquisite contrast, contrast
inexquisite nonexquisite, slow cool dim seagreen sliding depth of shadow, inexquisite nonexquisite, slow cool dim seagreen sliding depth of shadow,
EAU DE NIL. EAU DE NIL.
--Poor old Goodwin was the pianist that night, Father Cowley reminded --Poor old Goodwin was the pianist that night, Father Cowley reminded
them. There was a slight difference of opinion between himself and the them. There was a slight difference of opinion between himself and the
Collard grand. Collard grand.
There was. There was.
--A symposium all his own, Mr Dedalus said. The devil wouldn't stop him. --A symposium all his own, Mr Dedalus said. The devil wouldn't stop him.
He was a crotchety old fellow in the primary stage of drink. He was a crotchety old fellow in the primary stage of drink.
--God, do you remember? Ben bulky Dollard said, turning from the --God, do you remember? Ben bulky Dollard said, turning from the
punished keyboard. And by Japers I had no wedding garment. punished keyboard. And by Japers I had no wedding garment.
They laughed all three. He had no wed. All trio laughed. No wedding They laughed all three. He had no wed. All trio laughed. No wedding
garment. garment.
--Our friend Bloom turned in handy that night, Mr Dedalus said. Where's --Our friend Bloom turned in handy that night, Mr Dedalus said. Where's
my pipe, by the way? my pipe, by the way?
He wandered back to the bar to the lost chord pipe. Bald Pat carried He wandered back to the bar to the lost chord pipe. Bald Pat carried
two diners' drinks, Richie and Poldy. And Father Cowley laughed again. two diners' drinks, Richie and Poldy. And Father Cowley laughed again.
--I saved the situation, Ben, I think. --I saved the situation, Ben, I think.
--You did, averred Ben Dollard. I remember those tight trousers too. That --You did, averred Ben Dollard. I remember those tight trousers too. That
was a brilliant idea, Bob. was a brilliant idea, Bob.
Father Cowley blushed to his brilliant purply lobes. He saved the Father Cowley blushed to his brilliant purply lobes. He saved the
situa. Tight trou. Brilliant ide. situa. Tight trou. Brilliant ide.
--I knew he was on the rocks, he said. The wife was playing the piano in --I knew he was on the rocks, he said. The wife was playing the piano in
the coffee palace on Saturdays for a very trifling consideration and who the coffee palace on Saturdays for a very trifling consideration and who
was it gave me the wheeze she was doing the other business? Do you was it gave me the wheeze she was doing the other business? Do you
remember? We had to search all Holles street to find them till the chap in remember? We had to search all Holles street to find them till the chap in
Keogh's gave us the number. Remember? Ben remembered, his broad visage Keogh's gave us the number. Remember? Ben remembered, his broad visage
wondering. wondering.
--By God, she had some luxurious operacloaks and things there. --By God, she had some luxurious operacloaks and things there.
Mr Dedalus wandered back, pipe in hand. Mr Dedalus wandered back, pipe in hand.
--Merrion square style. Balldresses, by God, and court dresses. He --Merrion square style. Balldresses, by God, and court dresses. He
wouldn't take any money either. What? Any God's quantity of cocked hats wouldn't take any money either. What? Any God's quantity of cocked hats
and boleros and trunkhose. What? and boleros and trunkhose. What?
--Ay, ay, Mr Dedalus nodded. Mrs Marion Bloom has left off clothes of all --Ay, ay, Mr Dedalus nodded. Mrs Marion Bloom has left off clothes of all
descriptions. descriptions.
Jingle jaunted down the quays. Blazes sprawled on bounding tyres. Jingle jaunted down the quays. Blazes sprawled on bounding tyres.
Liver and bacon. Steak and kidney pie. Right, sir. Right, Pat. Liver and bacon. Steak and kidney pie. Right, sir. Right, Pat.
Mrs Marion. Met him pike hoses. Smell of burn. Of Paul de Kock. Nice Mrs Marion. Met him pike hoses. Smell of burn. Of Paul de Kock. Nice
name he. name he.
--What's this her name was? A buxom lassy. Marion ... --What's this her name was? A buxom lassy. Marion ...
--Tweedy. --Tweedy.
--Yes. Is she alive? --Yes. Is she alive?
--And kicking. --And kicking.
--She was a daughter of ... --She was a daughter of ...
--Daughter of the regiment. --Daughter of the regiment.
--Yes, begad. I remember the old drummajor. --Yes, begad. I remember the old drummajor.
Mr Dedalus struck, whizzed, lit, puffed savoury puff after Mr Dedalus struck, whizzed, lit, puffed savoury puff after
--Irish? I don't know, faith. Is she, Simon? --Irish? I don't know, faith. Is she, Simon?
Puff after stiff, a puff, strong, savoury, crackling. Puff after stiff, a puff, strong, savoury, crackling.
--Buccinator muscle is ... What? ... Bit rusty ... O, she is ... My --Buccinator muscle is ... What? ... Bit rusty ... O, she is ... My
Irish Molly, O. Irish Molly, O.
He puffed a pungent plumy blast. He puffed a pungent plumy blast.
--From the rock of Gibraltar... all the way. --From the rock of Gibraltar... all the way.
They pined in depth of ocean shadow, gold by the beerpull, bronze by They pined in depth of ocean shadow, gold by the beerpull, bronze by
maraschino, thoughtful all two. Mina Kennedy, 4 Lismore terrace, maraschino, thoughtful all two. Mina Kennedy, 4 Lismore terrace,
Drumcondra with Idolores, a queen, Dolores, silent. Drumcondra with Idolores, a queen, Dolores, silent.
Pat served, uncovered dishes. Leopold cut liverslices. As said before he Pat served, uncovered dishes. Leopold cut liverslices. As said before he
ate with relish the inner organs, nutty gizzards, fried cods' roes while ate with relish the inner organs, nutty gizzards, fried cods' roes while
Richie Goulding, Collis, Ward ate steak and kidney, steak then kidney, Richie Goulding, Collis, Ward ate steak and kidney, steak then kidney,
bite by bite of pie he ate Bloom ate they ate. bite by bite of pie he ate Bloom ate they ate.
Bloom with Goulding, married in silence, ate. Dinners fit for princes. Bloom with Goulding, married in silence, ate. Dinners fit for princes.
By Bachelor's walk jogjaunty jingled Blazes Boylan, bachelor, in sun By Bachelor's walk jogjaunty jingled Blazes Boylan, bachelor, in sun
in heat, mare's glossy rump atrot, with flick of whip, on bounding tyres: in heat, mare's glossy rump atrot, with flick of whip, on bounding tyres:
sprawled, warmseated, Boylan impatience, ardentbold. Horn. Have you sprawled, warmseated, Boylan impatience, ardentbold. Horn. Have you
the? Horn. Have you the? Haw haw horn. the? Horn. Have you the? Haw haw horn.
Over their voices Dollard bassooned attack, booming over bombarding Over their voices Dollard bassooned attack, booming over bombarding
chords: chords:
--WHEN LOVE ABSORBS MY ARDENT SOUL ... --WHEN LOVE ABSORBS MY ARDENT SOUL ...
Roll of Bensoulbenjamin rolled to the quivery loveshivery roofpanes. Roll of Bensoulbenjamin rolled to the quivery loveshivery roofpanes.
--War! War! cried Father Cowley. You're the warrior. --War! War! cried Father Cowley. You're the warrior.
--So I am, Ben Warrior laughed. I was thinking of your landlord. Love or --So I am, Ben Warrior laughed. I was thinking of your landlord. Love or
money. money.
He stopped. He wagged huge beard, huge face over his blunder huge. He stopped. He wagged huge beard, huge face over his blunder huge.
--Sure, you'd burst the tympanum of her ear, man, Mr Dedalus said --Sure, you'd burst the tympanum of her ear, man, Mr Dedalus said
through smoke aroma, with an organ like yours. through smoke aroma, with an organ like yours.
In bearded abundant laughter Dollard shook upon the keyboard. He In bearded abundant laughter Dollard shook upon the keyboard. He
would. would.
--Not to mention another membrane, Father Cowley added. Half time, --Not to mention another membrane, Father Cowley added. Half time,
Ben. AMOROSO MA NON TROPPO. Let me there. Ben. AMOROSO MA NON TROPPO. Let me there.
Miss Kennedy served two gentlemen with tankards of cool stout. She Miss Kennedy served two gentlemen with tankards of cool stout. She
passed a remark. It was indeed, first gentleman said, beautiful weather. passed a remark. It was indeed, first gentleman said, beautiful weather.
They drank cool stout. Did she know where the lord lieutenant was going? They drank cool stout. Did she know where the lord lieutenant was going?
And heard steelhoofs ringhoof ring. No, she couldn't say. But it would be And heard steelhoofs ringhoof ring. No, she couldn't say. But it would be
in the paper. O, she need not trouble. No trouble. She waved about her in the paper. O, she need not trouble. No trouble. She waved about her
outspread INDEPENDENT, searching, the lord lieutenant, her pinnacles of outspread INDEPENDENT, searching, the lord lieutenant, her pinnacles of
hair slowmoving, lord lieuten. Too much trouble, first gentleman said. O, hair slowmoving, lord lieuten. Too much trouble, first gentleman said. O,
not in the least. Way he looked that. Lord lieutenant. Gold by bronze not in the least. Way he looked that. Lord lieutenant. Gold by bronze
heard iron steel. heard iron steel.
-- ............ MY ARDENT SOUL -- ............ MY ARDENT SOUL
    I CARE NOT FOROR THE MORROW.     I CARE NOT FOROR THE MORROW.
In liver gravy Bloom mashed mashed potatoes. Love and War In liver gravy Bloom mashed mashed potatoes. Love and War
someone is. Ben Dollard's famous. Night he ran round to us to borrow a someone is. Ben Dollard's famous. Night he ran round to us to borrow a
dress suit for that concert. Trousers tight as a drum on him. Musical dress suit for that concert. Trousers tight as a drum on him. Musical
porkers. Molly did laugh when he went out. Threw herself back across the porkers. Molly did laugh when he went out. Threw herself back across the
bed, screaming, kicking. With all his belongings on show. O saints above, bed, screaming, kicking. With all his belongings on show. O saints above,
I'm drenched! O, the women in the front row! O, I never laughed so many! I'm drenched! O, the women in the front row! O, I never laughed so many!
Well, of course that's what gives him the base barreltone. For instance Well, of course that's what gives him the base barreltone. For instance
eunuchs. Wonder who's playing. Nice touch. Must be Cowley. Musical. eunuchs. Wonder who's playing. Nice touch. Must be Cowley. Musical.
Knows whatever note you play. Bad breath he has, poor chap. Stopped. Knows whatever note you play. Bad breath he has, poor chap. Stopped.
Miss Douce, engaging, Lydia Douce, bowed to suave solicitor, George Miss Douce, engaging, Lydia Douce, bowed to suave solicitor, George
Lidwell, gentleman, entering. Good afternoon. She gave her moist Lidwell, gentleman, entering. Good afternoon. She gave her moist
(a lady's) hand to his firm clasp. Afternoon. Yes, she was back. To the (a lady's) hand to his firm clasp. Afternoon. Yes, she was back. To the
old dingdong again. old dingdong again.
--Your friends are inside, Mr Lidwell. --Your friends are inside, Mr Lidwell.
George Lidwell, suave, solicited, held a lydiahand. George Lidwell, suave, solicited, held a lydiahand.
Bloom ate liv as said before. Clean here at least. That chap in the Bloom ate liv as said before. Clean here at least. That chap in the
Burton, gummy with gristle. No-one here: Goulding and I. Clean tables, Burton, gummy with gristle. No-one here: Goulding and I. Clean tables,
flowers, mitres of napkins. Pat to and fro. Bald Pat. Nothing to do. Best flowers, mitres of napkins. Pat to and fro. Bald Pat. Nothing to do. Best
value in Dub. value in Dub.
Piano again. Cowley it is. Way he sits in to it, like one together, Piano again. Cowley it is. Way he sits in to it, like one together,
mutual understanding. Tiresome shapers scraping fiddles, eye on the mutual understanding. Tiresome shapers scraping fiddles, eye on the
bowend, sawing the cello, remind you of toothache. Her high long snore. bowend, sawing the cello, remind you of toothache. Her high long snore.
Night we were in the box. Trombone under blowing like a grampus, Night we were in the box. Trombone under blowing like a grampus,
between the acts, other brass chap unscrewing, emptying spittle. between the acts, other brass chap unscrewing, emptying spittle.
Conductor's legs too, bagstrousers, jiggedy jiggedy. Do right to hide Conductor's legs too, bagstrousers, jiggedy jiggedy. Do right to hide
them. them.
Jiggedy jingle jaunty jaunty. Jiggedy jingle jaunty jaunty.
Only the harp. Lovely. Gold glowering light. Girl touched it. Poop of Only the harp. Lovely. Gold glowering light. Girl touched it. Poop of
a lovely. Gravy's rather good fit for a. Golden ship. Erin. The harp that a lovely. Gravy's rather good fit for a. Golden ship. Erin. The harp that
once or twice. Cool hands. Ben Howth, the rhododendrons. We are their once or twice. Cool hands. Ben Howth, the rhododendrons. We are their
harps. I. He. Old. Young. harps. I. He. Old. Young.
--Ah, I couldn't, man, Mr Dedalus said, shy, listless. --Ah, I couldn't, man, Mr Dedalus said, shy, listless.
Strongly. Strongly.
--Go on, blast you! Ben Dollard growled. Get it out in bits. --Go on, blast you! Ben Dollard growled. Get it out in bits.
--M'APPARI, Simon, Father Cowley said. --M'APPARI, Simon, Father Cowley said.
Down stage he strode some paces, grave, tall in affliction, his long Down stage he strode some paces, grave, tall in affliction, his long
arms outheld. Hoarsely the apple of his throat hoarsed softly. Softly he arms outheld. Hoarsely the apple of his throat hoarsed softly. Softly he
sang to a dusty seascape there: A LAST FAREWELL. A headland, a ship, a sang to a dusty seascape there: A LAST FAREWELL. A headland, a ship, a
sail upon the billows. Farewell. A lovely girl, her veil awave upon the sail upon the billows. Farewell. A lovely girl, her veil awave upon the
wind upon the headland, wind around her. wind upon the headland, wind around her.
Cowley sang: Cowley sang:
--M'APPARI TUTT'AMOR: --M'APPARI TUTT'AMOR:
IL MIO SGUARDO L'INCONTR ... IL MIO SGUARDO L'INCONTR ...
She waved, unhearing Cowley, her veil, to one departing, dear one, to She waved, unhearing Cowley, her veil, to one departing, dear one, to
wind, love, speeding sail, return. wind, love, speeding sail, return.
--Go on, Simon. --Go on, Simon.
--Ah, sure, my dancing days are done, Ben ... Well ... --Ah, sure, my dancing days are done, Ben ... Well ...
Mr Dedalus laid his pipe to rest beside the tuningfork and, sitting, Mr Dedalus laid his pipe to rest beside the tuningfork and, sitting,
touched the obedient keys. touched the obedient keys.
--No, Simon, Father Cowley turned. Play it in the original. One flat. --No, Simon, Father Cowley turned. Play it in the original. One flat.
The keys, obedient, rose higher, told, faltered, confessed, confused. The keys, obedient, rose higher, told, faltered, confessed, confused.
Up stage strode Father Cowley. Up stage strode Father Cowley.
--Here, Simon, I'll accompany you, he said. Get up. --Here, Simon, I'll accompany you, he said. Get up.
By Graham Lemon's pineapple rock, by Elvery's elephant jingly By Graham Lemon's pineapple rock, by Elvery's elephant jingly
jogged. Steak, kidney, liver, mashed, at meat fit for princes sat princes jogged. Steak, kidney, liver, mashed, at meat fit for princes sat princes
Bloom and Goulding. Princes at meat they raised and drank, Power and Bloom and Goulding. Princes at meat they raised and drank, Power and
cider. cider.
Most beautiful tenor air ever written, Richie said: SONNAMBULA. He Most beautiful tenor air ever written, Richie said: SONNAMBULA. He
heard Joe Maas sing that one night. Ah, what M'Guckin! Yes. In his way. heard Joe Maas sing that one night. Ah, what M'Guckin! Yes. In his way.
Choirboy style. Maas was the boy. Massboy. A lyrical tenor if you like. Choirboy style. Maas was the boy. Massboy. A lyrical tenor if you like.
Never forget it. Never. Never forget it. Never.
Tenderly Bloom over liverless bacon saw the tightened features strain. Tenderly Bloom over liverless bacon saw the tightened features strain.
Backache he. Bright's bright eye. Next item on the programme. Paying the Backache he. Bright's bright eye. Next item on the programme. Paying the
piper. Pills, pounded bread, worth a guinea a box. Stave it off awhile. piper. Pills, pounded bread, worth a guinea a box. Stave it off awhile.
Sings too: DOWN AMONG THE DEAD MEN. Appropriate. Kidney pie. Sweets to Sings too: DOWN AMONG THE DEAD MEN. Appropriate. Kidney pie. Sweets to
the. Not making much hand of it. Best value in. Characteristic of him. the. Not making much hand of it. Best value in. Characteristic of him.
Power. Particular about his drink. Flaw in the glass, fresh Vartry water. Power. Particular about his drink. Flaw in the glass, fresh Vartry water.
Fecking matches from counters to save. Then squander a sovereign in dribs Fecking matches from counters to save. Then squander a sovereign in dribs
and drabs. And when he's wanted not a farthing. Screwed refusing to pay and drabs. And when he's wanted not a farthing. Screwed refusing to pay
his fare. Curious types. his fare. Curious types.
Never would Richie forget that night. As long as he lived: never. In Never would Richie forget that night. As long as he lived: never. In
the gods of the old Royal with little Peake. And when the first note. the gods of the old Royal with little Peake. And when the first note.
Speech paused on Richie's lips. Speech paused on Richie's lips.
Coming out with a whopper now. Rhapsodies about damn all. Coming out with a whopper now. Rhapsodies about damn all.
Believes his own lies. Does really. Wonderful liar. But want a good Believes his own lies. Does really. Wonderful liar. But want a good
memory. memory.
--Which air is that? asked Leopold Bloom. --Which air is that? asked Leopold Bloom.
--ALL IS LOST NOW. --ALL IS LOST NOW.
Richie cocked his lips apout. A low incipient note sweet banshee murmured: Richie cocked his lips apout. A low incipient note sweet banshee murmured:
all. A thrush. A throstle. His breath, birdsweet, good teeth he's all. A thrush. A throstle. His breath, birdsweet, good teeth he's
proud of, fluted with plaintive woe. Is lost. Rich sound. Two notes in one proud of, fluted with plaintive woe. Is lost. Rich sound. Two notes in one
there. Blackbird I heard in the hawthorn valley. Taking my motives he there. Blackbird I heard in the hawthorn valley. Taking my motives he
twined and turned them. All most too new call is lost in all. Echo. How twined and turned them. All most too new call is lost in all. Echo. How
sweet the answer. How is that done? All lost now. Mournful he whistled. sweet the answer. How is that done? All lost now. Mournful he whistled.
Fall, surrender, lost. Fall, surrender, lost.
Bloom bent leopold ear, turning a fringe of doyley down under the Bloom bent leopold ear, turning a fringe of doyley down under the
vase. Order. Yes, I remember. Lovely air. In sleep she went to him. vase. Order. Yes, I remember. Lovely air. In sleep she went to him.
Innocence in the moon. Brave. Don't know their danger. Still hold her Innocence in the moon. Brave. Don't know their danger. Still hold her
back. Call name. Touch water. Jingle jaunty. Too late. She longed to go. back. Call name. Touch water. Jingle jaunty. Too late. She longed to go.
That's why. Woman. As easy stop the sea. Yes: all is lost. That's why. Woman. As easy stop the sea. Yes: all is lost.
--A beautiful air, said Bloom lost Leopold. I know it well. --A beautiful air, said Bloom lost Leopold. I know it well.
Never in all his life had Richie Goulding. Never in all his life had Richie Goulding.
He knows it well too. Or he feels. Still harping on his daughter. Wise He knows it well too. Or he feels. Still harping on his daughter. Wise
child that knows her father, Dedalus said. Me? child that knows her father, Dedalus said. Me?
Bloom askance over liverless saw. Face of the all is lost. Rollicking Bloom askance over liverless saw. Face of the all is lost. Rollicking
Richie once. Jokes old stale now. Wagging his ear. Napkinring in his eye. Richie once. Jokes old stale now. Wagging his ear. Napkinring in his eye.
Now begging letters he sends his son with. Crosseyed Walter sir I did sir. Now begging letters he sends his son with. Crosseyed Walter sir I did sir.
Wouldn't trouble only I was expecting some money. Apologise. Wouldn't trouble only I was expecting some money. Apologise.
Piano again. Sounds better than last time I heard. Tuned probably. Piano again. Sounds better than last time I heard. Tuned probably.
Stopped again. Stopped again.
Dollard and Cowley still urged the lingering singer out with it. Dollard and Cowley still urged the lingering singer out with it.
--With it, Simon. --With it, Simon.
--It, Simon. --It, Simon.
--Ladies and gentlemen, I am most deeply obliged by your kind --Ladies and gentlemen, I am most deeply obliged by your kind
solicitations. solicitations.
--It, Simon. --It, Simon.
--I have no money but if you will lend me your attention I shall endeavour --I have no money but if you will lend me your attention I shall endeavour
to sing to you of a heart bowed down. to sing to you of a heart bowed down.
By the sandwichbell in screening shadow Lydia, her bronze and rose, By the sandwichbell in screening shadow Lydia, her bronze and rose,
a lady's grace, gave and withheld: as in cool glaucous EAU DE NIL Mina a lady's grace, gave and withheld: as in cool glaucous EAU DE NIL Mina
to tankards two her pinnacles of gold. to tankards two her pinnacles of gold.
The harping chords of prelude closed. A chord, longdrawn, expectant, The harping chords of prelude closed. A chord, longdrawn, expectant,
drew a voice away. drew a voice away.
--WHEN FIRST I SAW THAT FORM ENDEARING ... --WHEN FIRST I SAW THAT FORM ENDEARING ...
Richie turned. Richie turned.
--Si Dedalus' voice, he said. --Si Dedalus' voice, he said.
Braintipped, cheek touched with flame, they listened feeling that flow Braintipped, cheek touched with flame, they listened feeling that flow
endearing flow over skin limbs human heart soul spine. Bloom signed to endearing flow over skin limbs human heart soul spine. Bloom signed to
Pat, bald Pat is a waiter hard of hearing, to set ajar the door of the Pat, bald Pat is a waiter hard of hearing, to set ajar the door of the
bar. The door of the bar. So. That will do. Pat, waiter, waited, waiting bar. The door of the bar. So. That will do. Pat, waiter, waited, waiting
to hear, for he was hard of hear by the door. to hear, for he was hard of hear by the door.
--SORROW FROM ME SEEMED TO DEPART. --SORROW FROM ME SEEMED TO DEPART.
Through the hush of air a voice sang to them, low, not rain, not leaves Through the hush of air a voice sang to them, low, not rain, not leaves
in murmur, like no voice of strings or reeds or whatdoyoucallthem in murmur, like no voice of strings or reeds or whatdoyoucallthem
dulcimers touching their still ears with words, still hearts of their each dulcimers touching their still ears with words, still hearts of their each
his remembered lives. Good, good to hear: sorrow from them each seemed to his remembered lives. Good, good to hear: sorrow from them each seemed to
from both depart when first they heard. When first they saw, lost Richie from both depart when first they heard. When first they saw, lost Richie
Poldy, mercy of beauty, heard from a person wouldn't expect it in the Poldy, mercy of beauty, heard from a person wouldn't expect it in the
least, her first merciful lovesoft oftloved word. least, her first merciful lovesoft oftloved word.
Love that is singing: love's old sweet song. Bloom unwound slowly Love that is singing: love's old sweet song. Bloom unwound slowly
the elastic band of his packet. Love's old sweet SONNEZ LA gold. Bloom the elastic band of his packet. Love's old sweet SONNEZ LA gold. Bloom
wound a skein round four forkfingers, stretched it, relaxed, and wound it wound a skein round four forkfingers, stretched it, relaxed, and wound it
round his troubled double, fourfold, in octave, gyved them fast. round his troubled double, fourfold, in octave, gyved them fast.
--FULL OF HOPE AND ALL DELIGHTED ... --FULL OF HOPE AND ALL DELIGHTED ...
Tenors get women by the score. Increase their flow. Throw flower at Tenors get women by the score. Increase their flow. Throw flower at
his feet. When will we meet? My head it simply. Jingle all delighted. He his feet. When will we meet? My head it simply. Jingle all delighted. He
can't sing for tall hats. Your head it simply swurls. Perfumed for him. can't sing for tall hats. Your head it simply swurls. Perfumed for him.
What perfume does your wife? I want to know. Jing. Stop. Knock. Last look What perfume does your wife? I want to know. Jing. Stop. Knock. Last look
at mirror always before she answers the door. The hall. There? How do you? at mirror always before she answers the door. The hall. There? How do you?
I do well. There? What? Or? Phial of cachous, kissing comfits, in her I do well. There? What? Or? Phial of cachous, kissing comfits, in her
satchel. Yes? Hands felt for the opulent. satchel. Yes? Hands felt for the opulent.
Alas the voice rose, sighing, changed: loud, full, shining, proud. Alas the voice rose, sighing, changed: loud, full, shining, proud.
--BUT ALAS, 'TWAS IDLE DREAMING ... --BUT ALAS, 'TWAS IDLE DREAMING ...
Glorious tone he has still. Cork air softer also their brogue. Silly man! Glorious tone he has still. Cork air softer also their brogue. Silly man!
Could have made oceans of money. Singing wrong words. Wore out his Could have made oceans of money. Singing wrong words. Wore out his
wife: now sings. But hard to tell. Only the two themselves. If he doesn't wife: now sings. But hard to tell. Only the two themselves. If he doesn't
break down. Keep a trot for the avenue. His hands and feet sing too. break down. Keep a trot for the avenue. His hands and feet sing too.
Drink. Nerves overstrung. Must be abstemious to sing. Jenny Lind soup: Drink. Nerves overstrung. Must be abstemious to sing. Jenny Lind soup:
stock, sage, raw eggs, half pint of cream. For creamy dreamy. stock, sage, raw eggs, half pint of cream. For creamy dreamy.
Tenderness it welled: slow, swelling, full it throbbed. That's the chat. Tenderness it welled: slow, swelling, full it throbbed. That's the chat.
Ha, give! Take! Throb, a throb, a pulsing proud erect. Ha, give! Take! Throb, a throb, a pulsing proud erect.
Words? Music? No: it's what's behind. Words? Music? No: it's what's behind.
Bloom looped, unlooped, noded, disnoded. Bloom looped, unlooped, noded, disnoded.
Bloom. Flood of warm jamjam lickitup secretness flowed to flow in Bloom. Flood of warm jamjam lickitup secretness flowed to flow in
music out, in desire, dark to lick flow invading. Tipping her tepping her music out, in desire, dark to lick flow invading. Tipping her tepping her
tapping her topping her. Tup. Pores to dilate dilating. Tup. The joy the tapping her topping her. Tup. Pores to dilate dilating. Tup. The joy the
feel the warm the. Tup. To pour o'er sluices pouring gushes. Flood, gush, feel the warm the. Tup. To pour o'er sluices pouring gushes. Flood, gush,
flow, joygush, tupthrob. Now! Language of love. flow, joygush, tupthrob. Now! Language of love.
-- ... RAY OF HOPE IS ... -- ... RAY OF HOPE IS ...
Beaming. Lydia for Lidwell squeak scarcely hear so ladylike the muse Beaming. Lydia for Lidwell squeak scarcely hear so ladylike the muse
unsqueaked a ray of hopk. unsqueaked a ray of hopk.
MARTHA it is. Coincidence. Just going to write. Lionel's song. Lovely MARTHA it is. Coincidence. Just going to write. Lionel's song. Lovely
name you have. Can't write. Accept my little pres. Play on her name you have. Can't write. Accept my little pres. Play on her
heartstrings pursestrings too. She's a. I called you naughty boy. Still heartstrings pursestrings too. She's a. I called you naughty boy. Still
the name: Martha. How strange! Today. the name: Martha. How strange! Today.
The voice of Lionel returned, weaker but unwearied. It sang again to The voice of Lionel returned, weaker but unwearied. It sang again to
Richie Poldy Lydia Lidwell also sang to Pat open mouth ear waiting to Richie Poldy Lydia Lidwell also sang to Pat open mouth ear waiting to
wait. How first he saw that form endearing, how sorrow seemed to part, wait. How first he saw that form endearing, how sorrow seemed to part,
how look, form, word charmed him Gould Lidwell, won Pat Bloom's heart. how look, form, word charmed him Gould Lidwell, won Pat Bloom's heart.
Wish I could see his face, though. Explain better. Why the barber in Wish I could see his face, though. Explain better. Why the barber in
Drago's always looked my face when I spoke his face in the glass. Still Drago's always looked my face when I spoke his face in the glass. Still
hear it better here than in the bar though farther. hear it better here than in the bar though farther.
--EACH GRACEFUL LOOK ... --EACH GRACEFUL LOOK ...
First night when first I saw her at Mat Dillon's in Terenure. Yellow, First night when first I saw her at Mat Dillon's in Terenure. Yellow,
black lace she wore. Musical chairs. We two the last. Fate. After her. black lace she wore. Musical chairs. We two the last. Fate. After her.
Fate. Fate.
Round and round slow. Quick round. We two. All looked. Halt. Down she Round and round slow. Quick round. We two. All looked. Halt. Down she
sat. All ousted looked. Lips laughing. Yellow knees. sat. All ousted looked. Lips laughing. Yellow knees.
--CHARMED MY EYE ... --CHARMED MY EYE ...
Singing. WAITING she sang. I turned her music. Full voice of perfume Singing. WAITING she sang. I turned her music. Full voice of perfume
of what perfume does your lilactrees. Bosom I saw, both full, throat of what perfume does your lilactrees. Bosom I saw, both full, throat
warbling. First I saw. She thanked me. Why did she me? Fate. Spanishy warbling. First I saw. She thanked me. Why did she me? Fate. Spanishy
eyes. Under a peartree alone patio this hour in old Madrid one side in eyes. Under a peartree alone patio this hour in old Madrid one side in
shadow Dolores shedolores. At me. Luring. Ah, alluring. shadow Dolores shedolores. At me. Luring. Ah, alluring.
--MARTHA! AH, MARTHA! --MARTHA! AH, MARTHA!
Quitting all languor Lionel cried in grief, in cry of passion dominant Quitting all languor Lionel cried in grief, in cry of passion dominant
to love to return with deepening yet with rising chords of harmony. In cry to love to return with deepening yet with rising chords of harmony. In cry
of lionel loneliness that she should know, must martha feel. For only her of lionel loneliness that she should know, must martha feel. For only her
he waited. Where? Here there try there here all try where. Somewhere. he waited. Where? Here there try there here all try where. Somewhere.
--CO-OME, THOU LOST ONE! --CO-OME, THOU LOST ONE!
  CO-OME, THOU DEAR ONE!   CO-OME, THOU DEAR ONE!
Alone. One love. One hope. One comfort me. Martha, chestnote, return! Alone. One love. One hope. One comfort me. Martha, chestnote, return!
--COME! --COME!
It soared, a bird, it held its flight, a swift pure cry, soar silver orb It soared, a bird, it held its flight, a swift pure cry, soar silver orb
it leaped serene, speeding, sustained, to come, don't spin it out too long it leaped serene, speeding, sustained, to come, don't spin it out too long
long breath he breath long life, soaring high, high resplendent, aflame, long breath he breath long life, soaring high, high resplendent, aflame,
crowned, high in the effulgence symbolistic, high, of the etherial bosom, crowned, high in the effulgence symbolistic, high, of the etherial bosom,
high, of the high vast irradiation everywhere all soaring all around about high, of the high vast irradiation everywhere all soaring all around about
the all, the endlessnessnessness ... the all, the endlessnessnessness ...
--TO ME! --TO ME!
Siopold! Siopold!
Consumed. Consumed.
Come. Well sung. All clapped. She ought to. Come. To me, to him, to Come. Well sung. All clapped. She ought to. Come. To me, to him, to
her, you too, me, us. her, you too, me, us.
--Bravo! Clapclap. Good man, Simon. Clappyclapclap. Encore! --Bravo! Clapclap. Good man, Simon. Clappyclapclap. Encore!
Clapclipclap clap. Sound as a bell. Bravo, Simon! Clapclopclap. Encore, Clapclipclap clap. Sound as a bell. Bravo, Simon! Clapclopclap. Encore,
enclap, said, cried, clapped all, Ben Dollard, Lydia Douce, George enclap, said, cried, clapped all, Ben Dollard, Lydia Douce, George
Lidwell, Pat, Mina Kennedy, two gentlemen with two tankards, Cowley, Lidwell, Pat, Mina Kennedy, two gentlemen with two tankards, Cowley,
first gent with tank and bronze miss Douce and gold MJiss Mina. first gent with tank and bronze miss Douce and gold MJiss Mina.
Blazes Boylan's smart tan shoes creaked on the barfloor, said before. Blazes Boylan's smart tan shoes creaked on the barfloor, said before.
Jingle by monuments of sir John Gray, Horatio onehandled Nelson, Jingle by monuments of sir John Gray, Horatio onehandled Nelson,
reverend father Theobald Mathew, jaunted, as said before just now. Atrot, reverend father Theobald Mathew, jaunted, as said before just now. Atrot,
in heat, heatseated. CLOCHE. SONNEZ LA. CLOCHE. SONNEZ LA. Slower the mare in heat, heatseated. CLOCHE. SONNEZ LA. CLOCHE. SONNEZ LA. Slower the mare
went up the hill by the Rotunda, Rutland square. Too slow for Boylan, went up the hill by the Rotunda, Rutland square. Too slow for Boylan,
blazes Boylan, impatience Boylan, joggled the mare. blazes Boylan, impatience Boylan, joggled the mare.
An afterclang of Cowley's chords closed, died on the air made richer. An afterclang of Cowley's chords closed, died on the air made richer.
And Richie Goulding drank his Power and Leopold Bloom his cider And Richie Goulding drank his Power and Leopold Bloom his cider
drank, Lidwell his Guinness, second gentleman said they would partake of drank, Lidwell his Guinness, second gentleman said they would partake of
two more tankards if she did not mind. Miss Kennedy smirked, disserving, two more tankards if she did not mind. Miss Kennedy smirked, disserving,
coral lips, at first, at second. She did not mind. coral lips, at first, at second. She did not mind.
--Seven days in jail, Ben Dollard said, on bread and water. Then you'd --Seven days in jail, Ben Dollard said, on bread and water. Then you'd
sing, Simon, like a garden thrush. sing, Simon, like a garden thrush.
Lionel Simon, singer, laughed. Father Bob Cowley played. Mina Lionel Simon, singer, laughed. Father Bob Cowley played. Mina
Kennedy served. Second gentleman paid. Tom Kernan strutted in. Lydia, Kennedy served. Second gentleman paid. Tom Kernan strutted in. Lydia,
admired, admired. But Bloom sang dumb. admired, admired. But Bloom sang dumb.
Admiring. Admiring.
Richie, admiring, descanted on that man's glorious voice. He Richie, admiring, descanted on that man's glorious voice. He
remembered one night long ago. Never forget that night. Si sang 'TWAS remembered one night long ago. Never forget that night. Si sang 'TWAS
RANK AND FAME: in Ned Lambert's 'twas. Good God he never heard in all his RANK AND FAME: in Ned Lambert's 'twas. Good God he never heard in all his
life a note like that he never did THEN FALSE ONE WE HAD BETTER PART so life a note like that he never did THEN FALSE ONE WE HAD BETTER PART so
clear so God he never heard SINCE LOVE LIVES NOT a clinking voice lives clear so God he never heard SINCE LOVE LIVES NOT a clinking voice lives
not ask Lambert he can tell you too. not ask Lambert he can tell you too.
Goulding, a flush struggling in his pale, told Mr Bloom, face of the Goulding, a flush struggling in his pale, told Mr Bloom, face of the
night, Si in Ned Lambert's, Dedalus house, sang 'TWAS RANK AND FAME. night, Si in Ned Lambert's, Dedalus house, sang 'TWAS RANK AND FAME.
He, Mr Bloom, listened while he, Richie Goulding, told him, Mr He, Mr Bloom, listened while he, Richie Goulding, told him, Mr
Bloom, of the night he, Richie, heard him, Si Dedalus, sing 'TWAS RANK AND Bloom, of the night he, Richie, heard him, Si Dedalus, sing 'TWAS RANK AND
FAME in his, Ned Lambert's, house. FAME in his, Ned Lambert's, house.
Brothers-in-law: relations. We never speak as we pass by. Rift in the Brothers-in-law: relations. We never speak as we pass by. Rift in the
lute I think. Treats him with scorn. See. He admires him all the more. The lute I think. Treats him with scorn. See. He admires him all the more. The
night Si sang. The human voice, two tiny silky chords, wonderful, more night Si sang. The human voice, two tiny silky chords, wonderful, more
than all others. than all others.
That voice was a lamentation. Calmer now. It's in the silence after That voice was a lamentation. Calmer now. It's in the silence after
you feel you hear. Vibrations. Now silent air. you feel you hear. Vibrations. Now silent air.
Bloom ungyved his crisscrossed hands and with slack fingers plucked Bloom ungyved his crisscrossed hands and with slack fingers plucked
the slender catgut thong. He drew and plucked. It buzz, it twanged. While the slender catgut thong. He drew and plucked. It buzz, it twanged. While
Goulding talked of Barraclough's voice production, while Tom Kernan, Goulding talked of Barraclough's voice production, while Tom Kernan,
harking back in a retrospective sort of arrangement talked to listening harking back in a retrospective sort of arrangement talked to listening
Father Cowley, who played a voluntary, who nodded as he played. While Father Cowley, who played a voluntary, who nodded as he played. While
big Ben Dollard talked with Simon Dedalus, lighting, who nodded as he big Ben Dollard talked with Simon Dedalus, lighting, who nodded as he
smoked, who smoked. smoked, who smoked.
Thou lost one. All songs on that theme. Yet more Bloom stretched his Thou lost one. All songs on that theme. Yet more Bloom stretched his
string. Cruel it seems. Let people get fond of each other: lure them on. string. Cruel it seems. Let people get fond of each other: lure them on.
Then tear asunder. Death. Explos. Knock on the head. Outtohelloutofthat. Then tear asunder. Death. Explos. Knock on the head. Outtohelloutofthat.
Human life. Dignam. Ugh, that rat's tail wriggling! Five bob I gave. Human life. Dignam. Ugh, that rat's tail wriggling! Five bob I gave.
CORPUS PARADISUM. Corncrake croaker: belly like a poisoned pup. Gone. CORPUS PARADISUM. Corncrake croaker: belly like a poisoned pup. Gone.
They sing. Forgotten. I too; And one day she with. Leave her: get tired. They sing. Forgotten. I too; And one day she with. Leave her: get tired.
Suffer then. Snivel. Big spanishy eyes goggling at nothing. Her Suffer then. Snivel. Big spanishy eyes goggling at nothing. Her
wavyavyeavyheavyeavyevyevyhair un comb:'d. wavyavyeavyheavyeavyevyevyhair un comb:'d.
Yet too much happy bores. He stretched more, more. Are you not Yet too much happy bores. He stretched more, more. Are you not
happy in your? Twang. It snapped. happy in your? Twang. It snapped.
Jingle into Dorset street. Jingle into Dorset street.
Miss Douce withdrew her satiny arm, reproachful, pleased. Miss Douce withdrew her satiny arm, reproachful, pleased.
--Don't make half so free, said she, till we are better acquainted. --Don't make half so free, said she, till we are better acquainted.
George Lidwell told her really and truly: but she did not believe. George Lidwell told her really and truly: but she did not believe.
First gentleman told Mina that was so. She asked him was that so. First gentleman told Mina that was so. She asked him was that so.
And second tankard told her so. That that was so. And second tankard told her so. That that was so.
Miss Douce, miss Lydia, did not believe: miss Kennedy, Mina, did not Miss Douce, miss Lydia, did not believe: miss Kennedy, Mina, did not
believe: George Lidwell, no: miss Dou did not: the first, the first: gent believe: George Lidwell, no: miss Dou did not: the first, the first: gent
with the tank: believe, no, no: did not, miss Kenn: Lidlydiawell: the with the tank: believe, no, no: did not, miss Kenn: Lidlydiawell: the
tank. tank.
Better write it here. Quills in the postoffice chewed and twisted. Better write it here. Quills in the postoffice chewed and twisted.
Bald Pat at a sign drew nigh. A pen and ink. He went. A pad. He Bald Pat at a sign drew nigh. A pen and ink. He went. A pad. He
went. A pad to blot. He heard, deaf Pat. went. A pad to blot. He heard, deaf Pat.
--Yes, Mr Bloom said, teasing the curling catgut line. It certainly is. --Yes, Mr Bloom said, teasing the curling catgut line. It certainly is.
Few lines will do. My present. All that Italian florid music is. Who is Few lines will do. My present. All that Italian florid music is. Who is
this wrote? Know the name you know better. Take out sheet notepaper, this wrote? Know the name you know better. Take out sheet notepaper,
envelope: unconcerned. It's so characteristic. envelope: unconcerned. It's so characteristic.
--Grandest number in the whole opera, Goulding said. --Grandest number in the whole opera, Goulding said.
--It is, Bloom said. --It is, Bloom said.
Numbers it is. All music when you come to think. Two multiplied by two Numbers it is. All music when you come to think. Two multiplied by two
divided by half is twice one. Vibrations: chords those are. One plus two divided by half is twice one. Vibrations: chords those are. One plus two
plus six is seven. Do anything you like with figures juggling. Always find plus six is seven. Do anything you like with figures juggling. Always find
out this equal to that. Symmetry under a cemetery wall. He doesn't see my out this equal to that. Symmetry under a cemetery wall. He doesn't see my
mourning. Callous: all for his own gut. Musemathematics. And you think mourning. Callous: all for his own gut. Musemathematics. And you think
you're listening to the etherial. But suppose you said it like: Martha, you're listening to the etherial. But suppose you said it like: Martha,
seven times nine minus x is thirtyfive thousand. Fall quite flat. It's on seven times nine minus x is thirtyfive thousand. Fall quite flat. It's on
account of the sounds it is. account of the sounds it is.
Instance he's playing now. Improvising. Might be what you like, till Instance he's playing now. Improvising. Might be what you like, till
you hear the words. Want to listen sharp. Hard. Begin all right: then hear you hear the words. Want to listen sharp. Hard. Begin all right: then hear
chords a bit off: feel lost a bit. In and out of sacks, over barrels, chords a bit off: feel lost a bit. In and out of sacks, over barrels,
through wirefences, obstacle race. Time makes the tune. Question of mood through wirefences, obstacle race. Time makes the tune. Question of mood
you're in. Still always nice to hear. Except scales up and down, girls you're in. Still always nice to hear. Except scales up and down, girls
learning. Two together nextdoor neighbours. Ought to invent dummy pianos learning. Two together nextdoor neighbours. Ought to invent dummy pianos
for that. BLUMENLIED I bought for her. The name. Playing it slow, a girl, for that. BLUMENLIED I bought for her. The name. Playing it slow, a girl,
night I came home, the girl. Door of the stables near Cecilia street. night I came home, the girl. Door of the stables near Cecilia street.
Milly no taste. Queer because we both, I mean. Milly no taste. Queer because we both, I mean.
Bald deaf Pat brought quite flat pad ink. Pat set with ink pen quite Bald deaf Pat brought quite flat pad ink. Pat set with ink pen quite
flat pad. Pat took plate dish knife fork. Pat went. flat pad. Pat took plate dish knife fork. Pat went.
It was the only language Mr Dedalus said to Ben. He heard them as a It was the only language Mr Dedalus said to Ben. He heard them as a
boy in Ringabella, Crosshaven, Ringabella, singing their barcaroles. boy in Ringabella, Crosshaven, Ringabella, singing their barcaroles.
Queenstown harbour full of Italian ships. Walking, you know, Ben, in the Queenstown harbour full of Italian ships. Walking, you know, Ben, in the
moonlight with those earthquake hats. Blending their voices. God, such moonlight with those earthquake hats. Blending their voices. God, such
music, Ben. Heard as a boy. Cross Ringabella haven mooncarole. music, Ben. Heard as a boy. Cross Ringabella haven mooncarole.
Sour pipe removed he held a shield of hand beside his lips that cooed Sour pipe removed he held a shield of hand beside his lips that cooed
a moonlight nightcall, clear from anear, a call from afar, replying. a moonlight nightcall, clear from anear, a call from afar, replying.
Down the edge of his FREEMAN baton ranged Bloom's, your other eye, Down the edge of his FREEMAN baton ranged Bloom's, your other eye,
scanning for where did I see that. Callan, Coleman, Dignam Patrick. scanning for where did I see that. Callan, Coleman, Dignam Patrick.
Heigho! Heigho! Fawcett. Aha! Just I was looking ... Heigho! Heigho! Fawcett. Aha! Just I was looking ...
Hope he's not looking, cute as a rat. He held unfurled his FREEMAN. Hope he's not looking, cute as a rat. He held unfurled his FREEMAN.
Can't see now. Remember write Greek ees. Bloom dipped, Bloo mur: dear Can't see now. Remember write Greek ees. Bloom dipped, Bloo mur: dear
sir. Dear Henry wrote: dear Mady. Got your lett and flow. Hell did I put? sir. Dear Henry wrote: dear Mady. Got your lett and flow. Hell did I put?
Some pock or oth. It is utterl imposs. Underline IMPOSS. To write today. Some pock or oth. It is utterl imposs. Underline IMPOSS. To write today.
Bore this. Bored Bloom tambourined gently with I am just reflecting Bore this. Bored Bloom tambourined gently with I am just reflecting
fingers on flat pad Pat brought. fingers on flat pad Pat brought.
On. Know what I mean. No, change that ee. Accep my poor litt pres On. Know what I mean. No, change that ee. Accep my poor litt pres
enclos. Ask her no answ. Hold on. Five Dig. Two about here. Penny the enclos. Ask her no answ. Hold on. Five Dig. Two about here. Penny the
gulls. Elijah is com. Seven Davy Byrne's. Is eight about. Say half a gulls. Elijah is com. Seven Davy Byrne's. Is eight about. Say half a
crown. My poor little pres: p. o. two and six. Write me a long. Do you crown. My poor little pres: p. o. two and six. Write me a long. Do you
despise? Jingle, have you the? So excited. Why do you call me naught? despise? Jingle, have you the? So excited. Why do you call me naught?
You naughty too? O, Mairy lost the string of her. Bye for today. Yes, yes, You naughty too? O, Mairy lost the string of her. Bye for today. Yes, yes,
will tell you. Want to. To keep it up. Call me that other. Other world she will tell you. Want to. To keep it up. Call me that other. Other world she
wrote. My patience are exhaust. To keep it up. You must believe. Believe. wrote. My patience are exhaust. To keep it up. You must believe. Believe.
The tank. It. Is. True. The tank. It. Is. True.
Folly am I writing? Husbands don't. That's marriage does, their Folly am I writing? Husbands don't. That's marriage does, their
wives. Because I'm away from. Suppose. But how? She must. Keep young. wives. Because I'm away from. Suppose. But how? She must. Keep young.
If she found out. Card in my high grade ha. No, not tell all. Useless If she found out. Card in my high grade ha. No, not tell all. Useless
pain. If they don't see. Woman. Sauce for the gander. pain. If they don't see. Woman. Sauce for the gander.
A hackney car, number three hundred and twentyfour, driver Barton James of A hackney car, number three hundred and twentyfour, driver Barton James of
number one Harmony avenue, Donnybrook, on which sat a fare, a young number one Harmony avenue, Donnybrook, on which sat a fare, a young
gentleman, stylishly dressed in an indigoblue serge suit made by gentleman, stylishly dressed in an indigoblue serge suit made by
George Robert Mesias, tailor and cutter, of number five Eden quay, and George Robert Mesias, tailor and cutter, of number five Eden quay, and
wearing a straw hat very dressy, bought of John Plasto of number one wearing a straw hat very dressy, bought of John Plasto of number one
Great Brunswick street, hatter. Eh? This is the jingle that joggled and Great Brunswick street, hatter. Eh? This is the jingle that joggled and
jingled. By Dlugacz' porkshop bright tubes of Agendath trotted a jingled. By Dlugacz' porkshop bright tubes of Agendath trotted a
gallantbuttocked mare. gallantbuttocked mare.
--Answering an ad? keen Richie's eyes asked Bloom. --Answering an ad? keen Richie's eyes asked Bloom.
--Yes, Mr Bloom said. Town traveller. Nothing doing, I expect. --Yes, Mr Bloom said. Town traveller. Nothing doing, I expect.
Bloom mur: best references. But Henry wrote: it will excite me. You Bloom mur: best references. But Henry wrote: it will excite me. You
know how. In haste. Henry. Greek ee. Better add postscript. What is he know how. In haste. Henry. Greek ee. Better add postscript. What is he
playing now? Improvising. Intermezzo. P. S. The rum tum tum. How will playing now? Improvising. Intermezzo. P. S. The rum tum tum. How will
you pun? You punish me? Crooked skirt swinging, whack by. Tell me I want you pun? You punish me? Crooked skirt swinging, whack by. Tell me I want
they? That's all right. they? That's all right.
He thrust the sheets back and went into the inner office. He thrust the sheets back and went into the inner office.
    LET US HOPE     LET US HOPE
J. J. O'Molloy, about to follow him in, said quietly to Stephen: J. J. O'Molloy, about to follow him in, said quietly to Stephen:
--I hope you will live to see it published. Myles, one moment. --I hope you will live to see it published. Myles, one moment.
He went into the inner office, closing the door behind him. He went into the inner office, closing the door behind him.
--Come along, Stephen, the professor said. That is fine, isn't it? It has --Come along, Stephen, the professor said. That is fine, isn't it? It has
the prophetic vision. FUIT ILIUM! The sack of windy Troy. Kingdoms of this the prophetic vision. FUIT ILIUM! The sack of windy Troy. Kingdoms of this
world. The masters of the Mediterranean are fellaheen today. world. The masters of the Mediterranean are fellaheen today.
The first newsboy came pattering down the stairs at their heels and The first newsboy came pattering down the stairs at their heels and
rushed out into the street, yelling: rushed out into the street, yelling:
--Racing special! --Racing special!
Dublin. I have much, much to learn. Dublin. I have much, much to learn.
They turned to the left along Abbey street. They turned to the left along Abbey street.
--I have a vision too, Stephen said. --I have a vision too, Stephen said.
--Yes? the professor said, skipping to get into step. Crawford will --Yes? the professor said, skipping to get into step. Crawford will
follow. follow.
Another newsboy shot past them, yelling as he ran: Another newsboy shot past them, yelling as he ran:
--Racing special! --Racing special!
    DEAR DIRTY DUBLIN     DEAR DIRTY DUBLIN
Dubliners. Dubliners.
--Two Dublin vestals, Stephen said, elderly and pious, have lived fifty --Two Dublin vestals, Stephen said, elderly and pious, have lived fifty
and fiftythree years in Fumbally's lane. and fiftythree years in Fumbally's lane.
--Where is that? the professor asked. --Where is that? the professor asked.
--Off Blackpitts, Stephen said. --Off Blackpitts, Stephen said.
Damp night reeking of hungry dough. Against the wall. Face Damp night reeking of hungry dough. Against the wall. Face
glistering tallow under her fustian shawl. Frantic hearts. Akasic records. glistering tallow under her fustian shawl. Frantic hearts. Akasic records.
Quicker, darlint! Quicker, darlint!
On now. Dare it. Let there be life. On now. Dare it. Let there be life.
--They want to see the views of Dublin from the top of Nelson's pillar. --They want to see the views of Dublin from the top of Nelson's pillar.
They save up three and tenpence in a red tin letterbox moneybox. They They save up three and tenpence in a red tin letterbox moneybox. They
shake out the threepenny bits and sixpences and coax out the pennies with shake out the threepenny bits and sixpences and coax out the pennies with
the blade of a knife. Two and three in silver and one and seven in the blade of a knife. Two and three in silver and one and seven in
coppers. They put on their bonnets and best clothes and take their coppers. They put on their bonnets and best clothes and take their
umbrellas for fear it may come on to rain. umbrellas for fear it may come on to rain.
--Wise virgins, professor MacHugh said. --Wise virgins, professor MacHugh said.
    LIFE ON THE RAW     LIFE ON THE RAW
--They buy one and fourpenceworth of brawn and four slices of panloaf at --They buy one and fourpenceworth of brawn and four slices of panloaf at
the north city diningrooms in Marlborough street from Miss Kate Collins, the north city diningrooms in Marlborough street from Miss Kate Collins,
proprietress ... They purchase four and twenty ripe plums from a girl at proprietress ... They purchase four and twenty ripe plums from a girl at
the foot of Nelson's pillar to take off the thirst of the brawn. They give the foot of Nelson's pillar to take off the thirst of the brawn. They give
two threepenny bits to the gentleman at the turnstile and begin to waddle two threepenny bits to the gentleman at the turnstile and begin to waddle
slowly up the winding staircase, grunting, encouraging each other, afraid slowly up the winding staircase, grunting, encouraging each other, afraid
of the dark, panting, one asking the other have you the brawn, praising of the dark, panting, one asking the other have you the brawn, praising
God and the Blessed Virgin, threatening to come down, peeping at the God and the Blessed Virgin, threatening to come down, peeping at the
airslits. Glory be to God. They had no idea it was that high. airslits. Glory be to God. They had no idea it was that high.
Their names are Anne Kearns and Florence MacCabe. Anne Kearns Their names are Anne Kearns and Florence MacCabe. Anne Kearns
has the lumbago for which she rubs on Lourdes water, given her by a lady has the lumbago for which she rubs on Lourdes water, given her by a lady
who got a bottleful from a passionist father. Florence MacCabe takes a who got a bottleful from a passionist father. Florence MacCabe takes a
crubeen and a bottle of double X for supper every Saturday. crubeen and a bottle of double X for supper every Saturday.
--Antithesis, the professor said nodding twice. Vestal virgins. I can see --Antithesis, the professor said nodding twice. Vestal virgins. I can see
them. What's keeping our friend? them. What's keeping our friend?
He turned. He turned.
A bevy of scampering newsboys rushed down the steps, scattering in A bevy of scampering newsboys rushed down the steps, scattering in
all directions, yelling, their white papers fluttering. Hard after them all directions, yelling, their white papers fluttering. Hard after them
Myles Crawford appeared on the steps, his hat aureoling his scarlet face, Myles Crawford appeared on the steps, his hat aureoling his scarlet face,
talking with J. J. O'Molloy. talking with J. J. O'Molloy.
--Come along, the professor cried, waving his arm. --Come along, the professor cried, waving his arm.
He set off again to walk by Stephen's side. He set off again to walk by Stephen's side.
    RETURN OF BLOOM     RETURN OF BLOOM
--Yes, he said. I see them. --Yes, he said. I see them.
Mr Bloom, breathless, caught in a whirl of wild newsboys near the Mr Bloom, breathless, caught in a whirl of wild newsboys near the
offices of the IRISH CATHOLIC AND DUBLIN PENNY JOURNAL, called: offices of the IRISH CATHOLIC AND DUBLIN PENNY JOURNAL, called:
--Mr Crawford! A moment! --Mr Crawford! A moment!
--TELEGRAPH! Racing special! --TELEGRAPH! Racing special!
--What is it? Myles Crawford said, falling back a pace. --What is it? Myles Crawford said, falling back a pace.
A newsboy cried in Mr Bloom's face: A newsboy cried in Mr Bloom's face:
--Terrible tragedy in Rathmines! A child bit by a bellows! --Terrible tragedy in Rathmines! A child bit by a bellows!
    INTERVIEW WITH THE EDITOR     INTERVIEW WITH THE EDITOR
--Just this ad, Mr Bloom said, pushing through towards the steps, --Just this ad, Mr Bloom said, pushing through towards the steps,
puffing, and taking the cutting from his pocket. I spoke with Mr Keyes puffing, and taking the cutting from his pocket. I spoke with Mr Keyes
just now. He'll give a renewal for two months, he says. After he'll see. just now. He'll give a renewal for two months, he says. After he'll see.
But he wants a par to call attention in the TELEGRAPH too, the Saturday But he wants a par to call attention in the TELEGRAPH too, the Saturday
pink. And he wants it copied if it's not too late I told councillor pink. And he wants it copied if it's not too late I told councillor
Nannetti from the KILKENNY PEOPLE. I can have access to it in the national Nannetti from the KILKENNY PEOPLE. I can have access to it in the national
library. House of keys, don't you see? His name is Keyes. It's a play on library. House of keys, don't you see? His name is Keyes. It's a play on
the name. But he practically promised he'd give the renewal. But he wants the name. But he practically promised he'd give the renewal. But he wants
just a little puff. What will I tell him, Mr Crawford? just a little puff. What will I tell him, Mr Crawford?
    K.M.A.     K.M.A.
--Will you tell him he can kiss my arse? Myles Crawford said throwing out --Will you tell him he can kiss my arse? Myles Crawford said throwing out
his arm for emphasis. Tell him that straight from the stable. his arm for emphasis. Tell him that straight from the stable.
A bit nervy. Look out for squalls. All off for a drink. Arm in arm. A bit nervy. Look out for squalls. All off for a drink. Arm in arm.
Lenehan's yachting cap on the cadge beyond. Usual blarney. Wonder is Lenehan's yachting cap on the cadge beyond. Usual blarney. Wonder is
that young Dedalus the moving spirit. Has a good pair of boots on him that young Dedalus the moving spirit. Has a good pair of boots on him
today. Last time I saw him he had his heels on view. Been walking in muck today. Last time I saw him he had his heels on view. Been walking in muck
somewhere. Careless chap. What was he doing in Irishtown? somewhere. Careless chap. What was he doing in Irishtown?
--Well, Mr Bloom said, his eyes returning, if I can get the design I --Well, Mr Bloom said, his eyes returning, if I can get the design I
suppose it's worth a short par. He'd give the ad, I think. I'll tell suppose it's worth a short par. He'd give the ad, I think. I'll tell
him ... him ...
    K.M.R.I.A.     K.M.R.I.A.
--He can kiss my royal Irish arse, Myles Crawford cried loudly over his --He can kiss my royal Irish arse, Myles Crawford cried loudly over his
shoulder. Any time he likes, tell him. shoulder. Any time he likes, tell him.
While Mr Bloom stood weighing the point and about to smile he strode While Mr Bloom stood weighing the point and about to smile he strode
on jerkily. on jerkily.
    RAISING THE WIND     RAISING THE WIND
--NULLA BONA, Jack, he said, raising his hand to his chin. I'm up to --NULLA BONA, Jack, he said, raising his hand to his chin. I'm up to
here. I've been through the hoop myself. I was looking for a fellow to here. I've been through the hoop myself. I was looking for a fellow to
back a bill for me no later than last week. Sorry, Jack. You must take the back a bill for me no later than last week. Sorry, Jack. You must take the
will for the deed. With a heart and a half if I could raise the wind will for the deed. With a heart and a half if I could raise the wind
anyhow. anyhow.
J. J. O'Molloy pulled a long face and walked on silently. They caught J. J. O'Molloy pulled a long face and walked on silently. They caught
up on the others and walked abreast. up on the others and walked abreast.
--When they have eaten the brawn and the bread and wiped their twenty --When they have eaten the brawn and the bread and wiped their twenty
fingers in the paper the bread was wrapped in they go nearer to the fingers in the paper the bread was wrapped in they go nearer to the
railings. railings.
--Something for you, the professor explained to Myles Crawford. Two old --Something for you, the professor explained to Myles Crawford. Two old
Dublin women on the top of Nelson's pillar. Dublin women on the top of Nelson's pillar.
    SOME COLUMN!--     SOME COLUMN!--
    THAT'S WHAT WADDLER ONE SAID     THAT'S WHAT WADDLER ONE SAID
--That's new, Myles Crawford said. That's copy. Out for the waxies --That's new, Myles Crawford said. That's copy. Out for the waxies
Dargle. Two old trickies, what? Dargle. Two old trickies, what?
--But they are afraid the pillar will fall, Stephen went on. They see the --But they are afraid the pillar will fall, Stephen went on. They see the
roofs and argue about where the different churches are: Rathmines' blue roofs and argue about where the different churches are: Rathmines' blue
dome, Adam and Eve's, saint Laurence O'Toole's. But it makes them giddy to dome, Adam and Eve's, saint Laurence O'Toole's. But it makes them giddy to
look so they pull up their skirts ... look so they pull up their skirts ...
    THOSE SLIGHTLY RAMBUNCTIOUS FEMALES     THOSE SLIGHTLY RAMBUNCTIOUS FEMALES
--Easy all, Myles Crawford said. No poetic licence. We're in the --Easy all, Myles Crawford said. No poetic licence. We're in the
archdiocese here. archdiocese here.
--And settle down on their striped petticoats, peering up at the statue --And settle down on their striped petticoats, peering up at the statue
of the onehandled adulterer. of the onehandled adulterer.
--Onehandled adulterer! the professor cried. I like that. I see the idea. --Onehandled adulterer! the professor cried. I like that. I see the idea.
I see what you mean. I see what you mean.
    DAMES DONATE DUBLIN'S CITS SPEEDPILLS     DAMES DONATE DUBLIN'S CITS SPEEDPILLS
    VELOCITOUS AEROLITHS, BELIEF     VELOCITOUS AEROLITHS, BELIEF
--It gives them a crick in their necks, Stephen said, and they are too --It gives them a crick in their necks, Stephen said, and they are too
tired to look up or down or to speak. They put the bag of plums between tired to look up or down or to speak. They put the bag of plums between
them and eat the plums out of it, one after another, wiping off with their them and eat the plums out of it, one after another, wiping off with their
handkerchiefs the plumjuice that dribbles out of their mouths and spitting handkerchiefs the plumjuice that dribbles out of their mouths and spitting
the plumstones slowly out between the railings. the plumstones slowly out between the railings.
He gave a sudden loud young laugh as a close. Lenehan and Mr O'Madden He gave a sudden loud young laugh as a close. Lenehan and Mr O'Madden
Burke, hearing, turned, beckoned and led on across towards Mooney's. Burke, hearing, turned, beckoned and led on across towards Mooney's.
--Finished? Myles Crawford said. So long as they do no worse. --Finished? Myles Crawford said. So long as they do no worse.
    SOPHIST WALLOPS HAUGHTY HELEN SQUARE ON     SOPHIST WALLOPS HAUGHTY HELEN SQUARE ON
    PROBOSCIS. SPARTANS GNASH MOLARS. ITHACANS     PROBOSCIS. SPARTANS GNASH MOLARS. ITHACANS
    VOW PEN IS CHAMP.     VOW PEN IS CHAMP.
--You remind me of Antisthenes, the professor said, a disciple of --You remind me of Antisthenes, the professor said, a disciple of
Gorgias, the sophist. It is said of him that none could tell if he were Gorgias, the sophist. It is said of him that none could tell if he were
bitterer against others or against himself. He was the son of a noble and bitterer against others or against himself. He was the son of a noble and
a bondwoman. And he wrote a book in which he took away the palm of beauty a bondwoman. And he wrote a book in which he took away the palm of beauty
from Argive Helen and handed it to poor Penelope. from Argive Helen and handed it to poor Penelope.
Poor Penelope. Penelope Rich. Poor Penelope. Penelope Rich.
They made ready to cross O'Connell street. They made ready to cross O'Connell street.
    HELLO THERE, CENTRAL!     HELLO THERE, CENTRAL!
At various points along the eight lines tramcars with motionless At various points along the eight lines tramcars with motionless
trolleys stood in their tracks, bound for or from Rathmines, Rathfarnham, trolleys stood in their tracks, bound for or from Rathmines, Rathfarnham,
Blackrock, Kingstown and Dalkey, Sandymount Green, Ringsend and Blackrock, Kingstown and Dalkey, Sandymount Green, Ringsend and
Sandymount Tower, Donnybrook, Palmerston Park and Upper Rathmines, Sandymount Tower, Donnybrook, Palmerston Park and Upper Rathmines,
all still, becalmed in short circuit. Hackney cars, cabs, delivery all still, becalmed in short circuit. Hackney cars, cabs, delivery
waggons, mailvans, private broughams, aerated mineral water floats with waggons, mailvans, private broughams, aerated mineral water floats with
rattling crates of bottles, rattled, rolled, horsedrawn, rapidly. rattling crates of bottles, rattled, rolled, horsedrawn, rapidly.
    WHAT?--AND LIKEWISE--WHERE?     WHAT?--AND LIKEWISE--WHERE?
--But what do you call it? Myles Crawford asked. Where did they get the --But what do you call it? Myles Crawford asked. Where did they get the
plums? plums?
    VIRGILIAN, SAYS PEDAGOGUE.     VIRGILIAN, SAYS PEDAGOGUE.
    SOPHOMORE PLUMPS FOR OLD MAN MOSES.     SOPHOMORE PLUMPS FOR OLD MAN MOSES.
--Call it, wait, the professor said, opening his long lips wide to --Call it, wait, the professor said, opening his long lips wide to
reflect. Call it, let me see. Call it: DEUS NOBIS HAEC OTIA FECIT. reflect. Call it, let me see. Call it: DEUS NOBIS HAEC OTIA FECIT.
--No, Stephen said. I call it A PISGAH SIGHT OF PALESTINE OR THE PARABLE --No, Stephen said. I call it A PISGAH SIGHT OF PALESTINE OR THE PARABLE
OF THE PLUMS. OF THE PLUMS.
--I see, the professor said. --I see, the professor said.
He laughed richly. He laughed richly.
--I see, he said again with new pleasure. Moses and the promised land. We --I see, he said again with new pleasure. Moses and the promised land. We
gave him that idea, he added to J. J. O'Molloy. gave him that idea, he added to J. J. O'Molloy.
    HORATIO IS CYNOSURE THIS FAIR JUNE DAY     HORATIO IS CYNOSURE THIS FAIR JUNE DAY
J. J. O'Molloy sent a weary sidelong glance towards the statue and J. J. O'Molloy sent a weary sidelong glance towards the statue and
held his peace. held his peace.
--I see, the professor said. --I see, the professor said.
He halted on sir John Gray's pavement island and peered aloft at Nelson He halted on sir John Gray's pavement island and peered aloft at Nelson
through the meshes of his wry smile. through the meshes of his wry smile.
    DIMINISHED DIGITS PROVE TOO TITILLATING     DIMINISHED DIGITS PROVE TOO TITILLATING
    FOR FRISKY FRUMPS. ANNE WIMBLES, FLO     FOR FRISKY FRUMPS. ANNE WIMBLES, FLO
    WANGLES--YET CAN YOU BLAME THEM?     WANGLES--YET CAN YOU BLAME THEM?
--Onehandled adulterer, he said smiling grimly. That tickles me, I must --Onehandled adulterer, he said smiling grimly. That tickles me, I must
say. say.
--Tickled the old ones too, Myles Crawford said, if the God Almighty's --Tickled the old ones too, Myles Crawford said, if the God Almighty's
truth was known. truth was known.
    * * * * * * *     * * * * * * *
Pineapple rock, lemon platt, butter scotch. A sugarsticky girl Pineapple rock, lemon platt, butter scotch. A sugarsticky girl
shovelling scoopfuls of creams for a christian brother. Some school treat. shovelling scoopfuls of creams for a christian brother. Some school treat.
Bad for their tummies. Lozenge and comfit manufacturer to His Majesty Bad for their tummies. Lozenge and comfit manufacturer to His Majesty
the King. God. Save. Our. Sitting on his throne sucking red jujubes white. the King. God. Save. Our. Sitting on his throne sucking red jujubes white.
A sombre Y.M.C.A. young man, watchful among the warm sweet A sombre Y.M.C.A. young man, watchful among the warm sweet
fumes of Graham Lemon's, placed a throwaway in a hand of Mr Bloom. fumes of Graham Lemon's, placed a throwaway in a hand of Mr Bloom.
Heart to heart talks. Heart to heart talks.
Bloo ... Me? No. Bloo ... Me? No.
Blood of the Lamb. Blood of the Lamb.
His slow feet walked him riverward, reading. Are you saved? All are His slow feet walked him riverward, reading. Are you saved? All are
washed in the blood of the lamb. God wants blood victim. Birth, hymen, washed in the blood of the lamb. God wants blood victim. Birth, hymen,
martyr, war, foundation of a building, sacrifice, kidney burntoffering, martyr, war, foundation of a building, sacrifice, kidney burntoffering,
druids' altars. Elijah is coming. Dr John Alexander Dowie restorer of the druids' altars. Elijah is coming. Dr John Alexander Dowie restorer of the
church in Zion is coming. church in Zion is coming.
    IS COMING! IS COMING!! IS COMING!!!     IS COMING! IS COMING!! IS COMING!!!
    ALL HEARTILY WELCOME.     ALL HEARTILY WELCOME.
Paying game. Torry and Alexander last year. Polygamy. His wife will Paying game. Torry and Alexander last year. Polygamy. His wife will
put the stopper on that. Where was that ad some Birmingham firm the put the stopper on that. Where was that ad some Birmingham firm the
luminous crucifix. Our Saviour. Wake up in the dead of night and see him luminous crucifix. Our Saviour. Wake up in the dead of night and see him
on the wall, hanging. Pepper's ghost idea. Iron nails ran in. on the wall, hanging. Pepper's ghost idea. Iron nails ran in.
Phosphorus it must be done with. If you leave a bit of codfish for Phosphorus it must be done with. If you leave a bit of codfish for
instance. I could see the bluey silver over it. Night I went down to the instance. I could see the bluey silver over it. Night I went down to the
pantry in the kitchen. Don't like all the smells in it waiting to rush pantry in the kitchen. Don't like all the smells in it waiting to rush
out. What was it she wanted? The Malaga raisins. Thinking of Spain. Before out. What was it she wanted? The Malaga raisins. Thinking of Spain. Before
Rudy was born. The phosphorescence, that bluey greeny. Very good for the Rudy was born. The phosphorescence, that bluey greeny. Very good for the
brain. brain.
From Butler's monument house corner he glanced along Bachelor's From Butler's monument house corner he glanced along Bachelor's
walk. Dedalus' daughter there still outside Dillon's auctionrooms. Must be walk. Dedalus' daughter there still outside Dillon's auctionrooms. Must be
selling off some old furniture. Knew her eyes at once from the father. selling off some old furniture. Knew her eyes at once from the father.
Lobbing about waiting for him. Home always breaks up when the mother Lobbing about waiting for him. Home always breaks up when the mother
goes. Fifteen children he had. Birth every year almost. That's in their goes. Fifteen children he had. Birth every year almost. That's in their
theology or the priest won't give the poor woman the confession, the theology or the priest won't give the poor woman the confession, the
absolution. Increase and multiply. Did you ever hear such an idea? Eat you absolution. Increase and multiply. Did you ever hear such an idea? Eat you
out of house and home. No families themselves to feed. Living on the fat out of house and home. No families themselves to feed. Living on the fat
of the land. Their butteries and larders. I'd like to see them do the of the land. Their butteries and larders. I'd like to see them do the
black fast Yom Kippur. Crossbuns. One meal and a collation for fear he'd black fast Yom Kippur. Crossbuns. One meal and a collation for fear he'd
collapse on the altar. A housekeeper of one of those fellows if you could collapse on the altar. A housekeeper of one of those fellows if you could
pick it out of her. Never pick it out of her. Like getting l.s.d. out of pick it out of her. Never pick it out of her. Like getting l.s.d. out of
him. Does himself well. No guests. All for number one. Watching his water. him. Does himself well. No guests. All for number one. Watching his water.
Bring your own bread and butter. His reverence: mum's the word. Bring your own bread and butter. His reverence: mum's the word.
Good Lord, that poor child's dress is in flitters. Underfed she looks Good Lord, that poor child's dress is in flitters. Underfed she looks
too. Potatoes and marge, marge and potatoes. It's after they feel it. too. Potatoes and marge, marge and potatoes. It's after they feel it.
Proof of the pudding. Undermines the constitution. Proof of the pudding. Undermines the constitution.
As he set foot on O'Connell bridge a puffball of smoke plumed up As he set foot on O'Connell bridge a puffball of smoke plumed up
from the parapet. Brewery barge with export stout. England. Sea air sours from the parapet. Brewery barge with export stout. England. Sea air sours
it, I heard. Be interesting some day get a pass through Hancock to see the it, I heard. Be interesting some day get a pass through Hancock to see the
brewery. Regular world in itself. Vats of porter wonderful. Rats get in brewery. Regular world in itself. Vats of porter wonderful. Rats get in
too. Drink themselves bloated as big as a collie floating. Dead drunk on too. Drink themselves bloated as big as a collie floating. Dead drunk on
the porter. Drink till they puke again like christians. Imagine drinking the porter. Drink till they puke again like christians. Imagine drinking
that! Rats: vats. Well, of course, if we knew all the things. that! Rats: vats. Well, of course, if we knew all the things.
Looking down he saw flapping strongly, wheeling between the gaunt Looking down he saw flapping strongly, wheeling between the gaunt
quaywalls, gulls. Rough weather outside. If I threw myself down? quaywalls, gulls. Rough weather outside. If I threw myself down?
Reuben J's son must have swallowed a good bellyful of that sewage. One and Reuben J's son must have swallowed a good bellyful of that sewage. One and
eightpence too much. Hhhhm. It's the droll way he comes out with the eightpence too much. Hhhhm. It's the droll way he comes out with the
things. Knows how to tell a story too. things. Knows how to tell a story too.
They wheeled lower. Looking for grub. Wait. They wheeled lower. Looking for grub. Wait.
He threw down among them a crumpled paper ball. Elijah thirtytwo He threw down among them a crumpled paper ball. Elijah thirtytwo
feet per sec is com. Not a bit. The ball bobbed unheeded on the wake of feet per sec is com. Not a bit. The ball bobbed unheeded on the wake of
swells, floated under by the bridgepiers. Not such damn fools. Also the swells, floated under by the bridgepiers. Not such damn fools. Also the
day I threw that stale cake out of the Erin's King picked it up in the day I threw that stale cake out of the Erin's King picked it up in the
wake fifty yards astern. Live by their wits. They wheeled, flapping. wake fifty yards astern. Live by their wits. They wheeled, flapping.
    THE HUNGRY FAMISHED GULL     THE HUNGRY FAMISHED GULL
    FLAPS O'ER THE WATERS DULL.     FLAPS O'ER THE WATERS DULL.
That is how poets write, the similar sounds. But then Shakespeare has That is how poets write, the similar sounds. But then Shakespeare has
no rhymes: blank verse. The flow of the language it is. The thoughts. no rhymes: blank verse. The flow of the language it is. The thoughts.
Solemn. Solemn.
    HAMLET, I AM THY FATHER'S SPIRIT     HAMLET, I AM THY FATHER'S SPIRIT
    DOOMED FOR A CERTAIN TIME TO WALK THE EARTH.     DOOMED FOR A CERTAIN TIME TO WALK THE EARTH.
--Two apples a penny! Two for a penny! --Two apples a penny! Two for a penny!
His gaze passed over the glazed apples serried on her stand. His gaze passed over the glazed apples serried on her stand.
Australians they must be this time of year. Shiny peels: polishes them up Australians they must be this time of year. Shiny peels: polishes them up
with a rag or a handkerchief. with a rag or a handkerchief.
Wait. Those poor birds. Wait. Those poor birds.
He halted again and bought from the old applewoman two Banbury He halted again and bought from the old applewoman two Banbury
cakes for a penny and broke the brittle paste and threw its fragments down cakes for a penny and broke the brittle paste and threw its fragments down
into the Liffey. See that? The gulls swooped silently, two, then all from into the Liffey. See that? The gulls swooped silently, two, then all from
their heights, pouncing on prey. Gone. Every morsel. their heights, pouncing on prey. Gone. Every morsel.
Aware of their greed and cunning he shook the powdery crumb from his Aware of their greed and cunning he shook the powdery crumb from his
hands. They never expected that. Manna. Live on fish, fishy flesh hands. They never expected that. Manna. Live on fish, fishy flesh
they have, all seabirds, gulls, seagoose. Swans from Anna Liffey swim they have, all seabirds, gulls, seagoose. Swans from Anna Liffey swim
down here sometimes to preen themselves. No accounting for tastes. down here sometimes to preen themselves. No accounting for tastes.
Wonder what kind is swanmeat. Robinson Crusoe had to live on them. Wonder what kind is swanmeat. Robinson Crusoe had to live on them.
They wheeled flapping weakly. I'm not going to throw any more. They wheeled flapping weakly. I'm not going to throw any more.
Penny quite enough. Lot of thanks I get. Not even a caw. They spread foot Penny quite enough. Lot of thanks I get. Not even a caw. They spread foot
and mouth disease too. If you cram a turkey say on chestnutmeal it tastes and mouth disease too. If you cram a turkey say on chestnutmeal it tastes
like that. Eat pig like pig. But then why is it that saltwater fish are like that. Eat pig like pig. But then why is it that saltwater fish are
not salty? How is that? not salty? How is that?
His eyes sought answer from the river and saw a rowboat rock at anchor His eyes sought answer from the river and saw a rowboat rock at anchor
on the treacly swells lazily its plastered board. on the treacly swells lazily its plastered board.
KINO'S KINO'S
11/- 11/-
TROUSERS TROUSERS
Good idea that. Wonder if he pays rent to the corporation. How can Good idea that. Wonder if he pays rent to the corporation. How can
you own water really? It's always flowing in a stream, never the same, you own water really? It's always flowing in a stream, never the same,
which in the stream of life we trace. Because life is a stream. All kinds which in the stream of life we trace. Because life is a stream. All kinds
of places are good for ads. That quack doctor for the clap used to be of places are good for ads. That quack doctor for the clap used to be
stuck up in all the greenhouses. Never see it now. Strictly confidential. stuck up in all the greenhouses. Never see it now. Strictly confidential.
Dr Hy Franks. Didn't cost him a red like Maginni the dancing master self Dr Hy Franks. Didn't cost him a red like Maginni the dancing master self
advertisement. Got fellows to stick them up or stick them up himself for advertisement. Got fellows to stick them up or stick them up himself for
that matter on the q. t. running in to loosen a button. Flybynight. Just that matter on the q. t. running in to loosen a button. Flybynight. Just
the place too. POST NO BILLS. POST 110 PILLS. Some chap with a dose the place too. POST NO BILLS. POST 110 PILLS. Some chap with a dose
burning him. burning him.
If he ...? If he ...?
O! O!
Eh? Eh?
No ... No. No ... No.
No, no. I don't believe it. He wouldn't surely? No, no. I don't believe it. He wouldn't surely?
No, no. No, no.
Mr Bloom moved forward, raising his troubled eyes. Think no more about Mr Bloom moved forward, raising his troubled eyes. Think no more about
that. After one. Timeball on the ballastoffice is down. Dunsink time. that. After one. Timeball on the ballastoffice is down. Dunsink time.
Fascinating little book that is of sir Robert Ball's. Parallax. I never Fascinating little book that is of sir Robert Ball's. Parallax. I never
exactly understood. There's a priest. Could ask him. Par it's Greek: exactly understood. There's a priest. Could ask him. Par it's Greek:
parallel, parallax. Met him pike hoses she called it till I told her about parallel, parallax. Met him pike hoses she called it till I told her about
the transmigration. O rocks! the transmigration. O rocks!
Mr Bloom smiled O rocks at two windows of the ballastoffice. She's Mr Bloom smiled O rocks at two windows of the ballastoffice. She's
right after all. Only big words for ordinary things on account of the right after all. Only big words for ordinary things on account of the
sound. She's not exactly witty. Can be rude too. Blurt out what I was sound. She's not exactly witty. Can be rude too. Blurt out what I was
thinking. Still, I don't know. She used to say Ben Dollard had a base thinking. Still, I don't know. She used to say Ben Dollard had a base
barreltone voice. He has legs like barrels and you'd think he was singing barreltone voice. He has legs like barrels and you'd think he was singing
into a barrel. Now, isn't that wit. They used to call him big Ben. Not into a barrel. Now, isn't that wit. They used to call him big Ben. Not
half as witty as calling him base barreltone. Appetite like an albatross. half as witty as calling him base barreltone. Appetite like an albatross.
Get outside of a baron of beef. Powerful man he was at stowing away number Get outside of a baron of beef. Powerful man he was at stowing away number
one Bass. Barrel of Bass. See? It all works out. one Bass. Barrel of Bass. See? It all works out.
 A procession of whitesmocked sandwichmen marched slowly towards  A procession of whitesmocked sandwichmen marched slowly towards
him along the gutter, scarlet sashes across their boards. Bargains. Like him along the gutter, scarlet sashes across their boards. Bargains. Like
that priest they are this morning: we have sinned: we have suffered. He that priest they are this morning: we have sinned: we have suffered. He
read the scarlet letters on their five tall white hats: H. E. L. Y. S. read the scarlet letters on their five tall white hats: H. E. L. Y. S.
Wisdom Hely's. Y lagging behind drew a chunk of bread from under his Wisdom Hely's. Y lagging behind drew a chunk of bread from under his
foreboard, crammed it into his mouth and munched as he walked. Our staple foreboard, crammed it into his mouth and munched as he walked. Our staple
food. Three bob a day, walking along the gutters, street after street. food. Three bob a day, walking along the gutters, street after street.
Just keep skin and bone together, bread and skilly. They are not Boyl: Just keep skin and bone together, bread and skilly. They are not Boyl:
no, M Glade's men. Doesn't bring in any business either. I suggested no, M Glade's men. Doesn't bring in any business either. I suggested
to him about a transparent showcart with two smart girls sitting to him about a transparent showcart with two smart girls sitting
inside writing letters, copybooks, envelopes, blottingpaper. I bet that inside writing letters, copybooks, envelopes, blottingpaper. I bet that
would have caught on. Smart girls writing something catch the eye at once. would have caught on. Smart girls writing something catch the eye at once.
Everyone dying to know what she's writing. Get twenty of them round you Everyone dying to know what she's writing. Get twenty of them round you
if you stare at nothing. Have a finger in the pie. Women too. Curiosity. if you stare at nothing. Have a finger in the pie. Women too. Curiosity.
Pillar of salt. Wouldn't have it of course because he didn't think Pillar of salt. Wouldn't have it of course because he didn't think
of it himself first. Or the inkbottle I suggested with a false stain of it himself first. Or the inkbottle I suggested with a false stain
of black celluloid. His ideas for ads like Plumtree's potted under of black celluloid. His ideas for ads like Plumtree's potted under
the obituaries, cold meat department. You can't lick 'em. What? Our the obituaries, cold meat department. You can't lick 'em. What? Our
envelopes. Hello, Jones, where are you going? Can't stop, Robinson, envelopes. Hello, Jones, where are you going? Can't stop, Robinson,
I am hastening to purchase the only reliable inkeraser KANSELL, I am hastening to purchase the only reliable inkeraser KANSELL,
sold by Hely's Ltd, 85 Dame street. Well out of that ruck I am. sold by Hely's Ltd, 85 Dame street. Well out of that ruck I am.
Devil of a job it was collecting accounts of those convents. Tranquilla Devil of a job it was collecting accounts of those convents. Tranquilla
convent. That was a nice nun there, really sweet face. Wimple suited her convent. That was a nice nun there, really sweet face. Wimple suited her
small head. Sister? Sister? I am sure she was crossed in love by her eyes. small head. Sister? Sister? I am sure she was crossed in love by her eyes.
Very hard to bargain with that sort of a woman. I disturbed her at her Very hard to bargain with that sort of a woman. I disturbed her at her
devotions that morning. But glad to communicate with the outside world. devotions that morning. But glad to communicate with the outside world.
Our great day, she said. Feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel. Sweet name Our great day, she said. Feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel. Sweet name
too: caramel. She knew I, I think she knew by the way she. If she had too: caramel. She knew I, I think she knew by the way she. If she had
married she would have changed. I suppose they really were short of married she would have changed. I suppose they really were short of
money. Fried everything in the best butter all the same. No lard for them. money. Fried everything in the best butter all the same. No lard for them.
My heart's broke eating dripping. They like buttering themselves in and My heart's broke eating dripping. They like buttering themselves in and
out. Molly tasting it, her veil up. Sister? Pat Claffey, the pawnbroker's out. Molly tasting it, her veil up. Sister? Pat Claffey, the pawnbroker's
daughter. It was a nun they say invented barbed wire. daughter. It was a nun they say invented barbed wire.
He crossed Westmoreland street when apostrophe S had plodded by. He crossed Westmoreland street when apostrophe S had plodded by.
Rover cycleshop. Those races are on today. How long ago is that? Year Rover cycleshop. Those races are on today. How long ago is that? Year
Phil Gilligan died. We were in Lombard street west. Wait: was in Thom's. Phil Gilligan died. We were in Lombard street west. Wait: was in Thom's.
Got the job in Wisdom Hely's year we married. Six years. Ten years ago: Got the job in Wisdom Hely's year we married. Six years. Ten years ago:
ninetyfour he died yes that's right the big fire at Arnott's. Val Dillon ninetyfour he died yes that's right the big fire at Arnott's. Val Dillon
was lord mayor. The Glencree dinner. Alderman Robert O'Reilly emptying the was lord mayor. The Glencree dinner. Alderman Robert O'Reilly emptying the
port into his soup before the flag fell. Bobbob lapping it for the inner port into his soup before the flag fell. Bobbob lapping it for the inner
alderman. Couldn't hear what the band played. For what we have already alderman. Couldn't hear what the band played. For what we have already
received may the Lord make us. Milly was a kiddy then. Molly had that received may the Lord make us. Milly was a kiddy then. Molly had that
elephantgrey dress with the braided frogs. Mantailored with selfcovered elephantgrey dress with the braided frogs. Mantailored with selfcovered
buttons. She didn't like it because I sprained my ankle first day she wore buttons. She didn't like it because I sprained my ankle first day she wore
choir picnic at the Sugarloaf. As if that. Old Goodwin's tall hat done up choir picnic at the Sugarloaf. As if that. Old Goodwin's tall hat done up
with some sticky stuff. Flies' picnic too. Never put a dress on her back with some sticky stuff. Flies' picnic too. Never put a dress on her back
like it. Fitted her like a glove, shoulders and hips. Just beginning to like it. Fitted her like a glove, shoulders and hips. Just beginning to
plump it out well. Rabbitpie we had that day. People looking after her. plump it out well. Rabbitpie we had that day. People looking after her.
Happy. Happier then. Snug little room that was with the red Happy. Happier then. Snug little room that was with the red
wallpaper. Dockrell's, one and ninepence a dozen. Milly's tubbing night. wallpaper. Dockrell's, one and ninepence a dozen. Milly's tubbing night.
American soap I bought: elderflower. Cosy smell of her bathwater. Funny American soap I bought: elderflower. Cosy smell of her bathwater. Funny
she looked soaped all over. Shapely too. Now photography. Poor papa's she looked soaped all over. Shapely too. Now photography. Poor papa's
daguerreotype atelier he told me of. Hereditary taste. daguerreotype atelier he told me of. Hereditary taste.
He walked along the curbstone. He walked along the curbstone.
Stream of life. What was the name of that priestylooking chap was Stream of life. What was the name of that priestylooking chap was
always squinting in when he passed? Weak eyes, woman. Stopped in always squinting in when he passed? Weak eyes, woman. Stopped in
Citron's saint Kevin's parade. Pen something. Pendennis? My memory is Citron's saint Kevin's parade. Pen something. Pendennis? My memory is
getting. Pen ...? Of course it's years ago. Noise of the trams probably. getting. Pen ...? Of course it's years ago. Noise of the trams probably.
Well, if he couldn't remember the dayfather's name that he sees every day. Well, if he couldn't remember the dayfather's name that he sees every day.
Bartell d'Arcy was the tenor, just coming out then. Seeing her home Bartell d'Arcy was the tenor, just coming out then. Seeing her home
after practice. Conceited fellow with his waxedup moustache. Gave her that after practice. Conceited fellow with his waxedup moustache. Gave her that
song WINDS THAT BLOW FROM THE SOUTH. song WINDS THAT BLOW FROM THE SOUTH.
Windy night that was I went to fetch her there was that lodge meeting Windy night that was I went to fetch her there was that lodge meeting
on about those lottery tickets after Goodwin's concert in the supperroom on about those lottery tickets after Goodwin's concert in the supperroom
or oakroom of the Mansion house. He and I behind. Sheet of her music blew or oakroom of the Mansion house. He and I behind. Sheet of her music blew
out of my hand against the High school railings. Lucky it didn't. Thing out of my hand against the High school railings. Lucky it didn't. Thing
like that spoils the effect of a night for her. Professor Goodwin linking like that spoils the effect of a night for her. Professor Goodwin linking
her in front. Shaky on his pins, poor old sot. His farewell concerts. her in front. Shaky on his pins, poor old sot. His farewell concerts.
Positively last appearance on any stage. May be for months and may be for Positively last appearance on any stage. May be for months and may be for
never. Remember her laughing at the wind, her blizzard collar up. Corner never. Remember her laughing at the wind, her blizzard collar up. Corner
of Harcourt road remember that gust. Brrfoo! Blew up all her skirts and of Harcourt road remember that gust. Brrfoo! Blew up all her skirts and
her boa nearly smothered old Goodwin. She did get flushed in the wind. her boa nearly smothered old Goodwin. She did get flushed in the wind.
Remember when we got home raking up the fire and frying up those pieces Remember when we got home raking up the fire and frying up those pieces
of lap of mutton for her supper with the Chutney sauce she liked. And the of lap of mutton for her supper with the Chutney sauce she liked. And the
mulled rum. Could see her in the bedroom from the hearth unclamping the mulled rum. Could see her in the bedroom from the hearth unclamping the
busk of her stays: white. busk of her stays: white.
Swish and soft flop her stays made on the bed. Always warm from Swish and soft flop her stays made on the bed. Always warm from
her. Always liked to let her self out. Sitting there after till near two her. Always liked to let her self out. Sitting there after till near two
taking out her hairpins. Milly tucked up in beddyhouse. Happy. Happy. taking out her hairpins. Milly tucked up in beddyhouse. Happy. Happy.
That was the night ... That was the night ...
--O, Mr Bloom, how do you do? --O, Mr Bloom, how do you do?
--O, how do you do, Mrs Breen? --O, how do you do, Mrs Breen?
--No use complaining. How is Molly those times? Haven't seen her for ages. --No use complaining. How is Molly those times? Haven't seen her for ages.
--In the pink, Mr Bloom said gaily. Milly has a position down in --In the pink, Mr Bloom said gaily. Milly has a position down in
Mullingar, you know. Mullingar, you know.
--Go away! Isn't that grand for her? --Go away! Isn't that grand for her?
--Yes. In a photographer's there. Getting on like a house on fire. How are --Yes. In a photographer's there. Getting on like a house on fire. How are
all your charges? all your charges?
--All on the baker's list, Mrs Breen said. --All on the baker's list, Mrs Breen said.
How many has she? No other in sight. How many has she? No other in sight.
--You're in black, I see. You have no ... --You're in black, I see. You have no ...
--No, Mr Bloom said. I have just come from a funeral. --No, Mr Bloom said. I have just come from a funeral.
Going to crop up all day, I foresee. Who's dead, when and what did Going to crop up all day, I foresee. Who's dead, when and what did
he die of? Turn up like a bad penny. he die of? Turn up like a bad penny.
--O, dear me, Mrs Breen said. I hope it wasn't any near relation. --O, dear me, Mrs Breen said. I hope it wasn't any near relation.
May as well get her sympathy. May as well get her sympathy.
--Dignam, Mr Bloom said. An old friend of mine. He died quite suddenly, --Dignam, Mr Bloom said. An old friend of mine. He died quite suddenly,
poor fellow. Heart trouble, I believe. Funeral was this morning. poor fellow. Heart trouble, I believe. Funeral was this morning.
    YOUR FUNERAL'S TOMORROW     YOUR FUNERAL'S TOMORROW
    WHILE YOU'RE COMING THROUGH THE RYE.     WHILE YOU'RE COMING THROUGH THE RYE.
    DIDDLEDIDDLE DUMDUM     DIDDLEDIDDLE DUMDUM
    DIDDLEDIDDLE ...     DIDDLEDIDDLE ...
--Sad to lose the old friends, Mrs Breen's womaneyes said melancholily. --Sad to lose the old friends, Mrs Breen's womaneyes said melancholily.
Now that's quite enough about that. Just: quietly: husband. Now that's quite enough about that. Just: quietly: husband.
--And your lord and master? --And your lord and master?
Mrs Breen turned up her two large eyes. Hasn't lost them anyhow. Mrs Breen turned up her two large eyes. Hasn't lost them anyhow.
--O, don't be talking! she said. He's a caution to rattlesnakes. He's in --O, don't be talking! she said. He's a caution to rattlesnakes. He's in
there now with his lawbooks finding out the law of libel. He has me there now with his lawbooks finding out the law of libel. He has me
heartscalded. Wait till I show you. heartscalded. Wait till I show you.
Hot mockturtle vapour and steam of newbaked jampuffs rolypoly Hot mockturtle vapour and steam of newbaked jampuffs rolypoly
poured out from Harrison's. The heavy noonreek tickled the top of Mr poured out from Harrison's. The heavy noonreek tickled the top of Mr
Bloom's gullet. Want to make good pastry, butter, best flour, Demerara Bloom's gullet. Want to make good pastry, butter, best flour, Demerara
sugar, or they'd taste it with the hot tea. Or is it from her? A barefoot sugar, or they'd taste it with the hot tea. Or is it from her? A barefoot
arab stood over the grating, breathing in the fumes. Deaden the gnaw of arab stood over the grating, breathing in the fumes. Deaden the gnaw of
hunger that way. Pleasure or pain is it? Penny dinner. Knife and fork hunger that way. Pleasure or pain is it? Penny dinner. Knife and fork
chained to the table. chained to the table.
Opening her handbag, chipped leather. Hatpin: ought to have a Opening her handbag, chipped leather. Hatpin: ought to have a
guard on those things. Stick it in a chap's eye in the tram. Rummaging. guard on those things. Stick it in a chap's eye in the tram. Rummaging.
Open. Money. Please take one. Devils if they lose sixpence. Raise Cain. Open. Money. Please take one. Devils if they lose sixpence. Raise Cain.
Husband barging. Where's the ten shillings I gave you on Monday? Are Husband barging. Where's the ten shillings I gave you on Monday? Are
you feeding your little brother's family? Soiled handkerchief: you feeding your little brother's family? Soiled handkerchief:
medicinebottle. Pastille that was fell. What is she? ... medicinebottle. Pastille that was fell. What is she? ...
--There must be a new moon out, she said. He's always bad then. Do you --There must be a new moon out, she said. He's always bad then. Do you
know what he did last night? know what he did last night?
Her hand ceased to rummage. Her eyes fixed themselves on him, wide Her hand ceased to rummage. Her eyes fixed themselves on him, wide
in alarm, yet smiling. in alarm, yet smiling.
--What? Mr Bloom asked. --What? Mr Bloom asked.
Let her speak. Look straight in her eyes. I believe you. Trust me. Let her speak. Look straight in her eyes. I believe you. Trust me.
--Woke me up in the night, she said. Dream he had, a nightmare. --Woke me up in the night, she said. Dream he had, a nightmare.
Indiges. Indiges.
--Said the ace of spades was walking up the stairs. --Said the ace of spades was walking up the stairs.
--The ace of spades! Mr Bloom said. --The ace of spades! Mr Bloom said.
She took a folded postcard from her handbag. She took a folded postcard from her handbag.
--Read that, she said. He got it this morning. --Read that, she said. He got it this morning.
--What is it? Mr Bloom asked, taking the card. U.P.? --What is it? Mr Bloom asked, taking the card. U.P.?
--U.P.: up, she said. Someone taking a rise out of him. It's a great shame --U.P.: up, she said. Someone taking a rise out of him. It's a great shame
for them whoever he is. for them whoever he is.
--Indeed it is, Mr Bloom said. --Indeed it is, Mr Bloom said.
She took back the card, sighing. She took back the card, sighing.
--And now he's going round to Mr Menton's office. He's going to take an --And now he's going round to Mr Menton's office. He's going to take an
action for ten thousand pounds, he says. action for ten thousand pounds, he says.
She folded the card into her untidy bag and snapped the catch. She folded the card into her untidy bag and snapped the catch.
Same blue serge dress she had two years ago, the nap bleaching. Seen Same blue serge dress she had two years ago, the nap bleaching. Seen
its best days. Wispish hair over her ears. And that dowdy toque: three old its best days. Wispish hair over her ears. And that dowdy toque: three old
grapes to take the harm out of it. Shabby genteel. She used to be a tasty grapes to take the harm out of it. Shabby genteel. She used to be a tasty
dresser. Lines round her mouth. Only a year or so older than Molly. dresser. Lines round her mouth. Only a year or so older than Molly.
See the eye that woman gave her, passing. Cruel. The unfair sex. See the eye that woman gave her, passing. Cruel. The unfair sex.
He looked still at her, holding back behind his look his discontent. He looked still at her, holding back behind his look his discontent.
Pungent mockturtle oxtail mulligatawny. I'm hungry too. Flakes of pastry Pungent mockturtle oxtail mulligatawny. I'm hungry too. Flakes of pastry
on the gusset of her dress: daub of sugary flour stuck to her cheek. on the gusset of her dress: daub of sugary flour stuck to her cheek.
Rhubarb tart with liberal fillings, rich fruit interior. Josie Powell that Rhubarb tart with liberal fillings, rich fruit interior. Josie Powell that
was. In Luke Doyle's long ago. Dolphin's Barn, the charades. U.P.: up. was. In Luke Doyle's long ago. Dolphin's Barn, the charades. U.P.: up.
Change the subject. Change the subject.
--Do you ever see anything of Mrs Beaufoy? Mr Bloom asked. --Do you ever see anything of Mrs Beaufoy? Mr Bloom asked.
--Mina Purefoy? she said. --Mina Purefoy? she said.
Philip Beaufoy I was thinking. Playgoers' Club. Matcham often Philip Beaufoy I was thinking. Playgoers' Club. Matcham often
thinks of the masterstroke. Did I pull the chain? Yes. The last act. thinks of the masterstroke. Did I pull the chain? Yes. The last act.
--Yes. --Yes.
--I just called to ask on the way in is she over it. She's in the lying-in --I just called to ask on the way in is she over it. She's in the lying-in
hospital in Holles street. Dr Horne got her in. She's three days bad now. hospital in Holles street. Dr Horne got her in. She's three days bad now.
--O, Mr Bloom said. I'm sorry to hear that. --O, Mr Bloom said. I'm sorry to hear that.
--Yes, Mrs Breen said. And a houseful of kids at home. It's a very stiff --Yes, Mrs Breen said. And a houseful of kids at home. It's a very stiff
birth, the nurse told me. birth, the nurse told me.
---O, Mr Bloom said. ---O, Mr Bloom said.
His heavy pitying gaze absorbed her news. His tongue clacked in His heavy pitying gaze absorbed her news. His tongue clacked in
compassion. Dth! Dth! compassion. Dth! Dth!
--I'm sorry to hear that, he said. Poor thing! Three days! That's terrible --I'm sorry to hear that, he said. Poor thing! Three days! That's terrible
for her. for her.
Mrs Breen nodded. Mrs Breen nodded.
--She was taken bad on the Tuesday ... --She was taken bad on the Tuesday ...
Mr Bloom touched her funnybone gently, warning her: Mr Bloom touched her funnybone gently, warning her:
--Mind! Let this man pass. --Mind! Let this man pass.
A bony form strode along the curbstone from the river staring with a A bony form strode along the curbstone from the river staring with a
rapt gaze into the sunlight through a heavystringed glass. Tight as a rapt gaze into the sunlight through a heavystringed glass. Tight as a
skullpiece a tiny hat gripped his head. From his arm a folded dustcoat, a skullpiece a tiny hat gripped his head. From his arm a folded dustcoat, a
stick and an umbrella dangled to his stride. stick and an umbrella dangled to his stride.
--Watch him, Mr Bloom said. He always walks outside the lampposts. Watch! --Watch him, Mr Bloom said. He always walks outside the lampposts. Watch!
--Who is he if it's a fair question? Mrs Breen asked. Is he dotty? --Who is he if it's a fair question? Mrs Breen asked. Is he dotty?
--His name is Cashel Boyle O'Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell, Mr --His name is Cashel Boyle O'Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell, Mr
Bloom said smiling. Watch! Bloom said smiling. Watch!
--He has enough of them, she said. Denis will be like that one of these --He has enough of them, she said. Denis will be like that one of these
days. days.
She broke off suddenly. She broke off suddenly.
--There he is, she said. I must go after him. Goodbye. Remember me to --There he is, she said. I must go after him. Goodbye. Remember me to
Molly, won't you? Molly, won't you?
--I will, Mr Bloom said. --I will, Mr Bloom said.
He watched her dodge through passers towards the shopfronts. Denis He watched her dodge through passers towards the shopfronts. Denis
Breen in skimpy frockcoat and blue canvas shoes shuffled out of Harrison's Breen in skimpy frockcoat and blue canvas shoes shuffled out of Harrison's
hugging two heavy tomes to his ribs. Blown in from the bay. Like old hugging two heavy tomes to his ribs. Blown in from the bay. Like old
times. He suffered her to overtake him without surprise and thrust his times. He suffered her to overtake him without surprise and thrust his
dull grey beard towards her, his loose jaw wagging as he spoke earnestly. dull grey beard towards her, his loose jaw wagging as he spoke earnestly.
Meshuggah. Off his chump. Meshuggah. Off his chump.
Mr Bloom walked on again easily, seeing ahead of him in sunlight the Mr Bloom walked on again easily, seeing ahead of him in sunlight the
tight skullpiece, the dangling stickumbrelladustcoat. Going the two days. tight skullpiece, the dangling stickumbrelladustcoat. Going the two days.
Watch him!  Out he goes again. One way of getting on in the world. And Watch him!  Out he goes again. One way of getting on in the world. And
that other old mosey lunatic in those duds. Hard time she must have with that other old mosey lunatic in those duds. Hard time she must have with
him. him.
U.P.: up. I'll take my oath that's Alf Bergan or Richie Goulding. U.P.: up. I'll take my oath that's Alf Bergan or Richie Goulding.
Wrote it for a lark in the Scotch house I bet anything. Round to Menton's Wrote it for a lark in the Scotch house I bet anything. Round to Menton's
office. His oyster eyes staring at the postcard. Be a feast for the gods. office. His oyster eyes staring at the postcard. Be a feast for the gods.
He passed the IRISH TIMES. There might be other answers Iying there. He passed the IRISH TIMES. There might be other answers Iying there.
Like to answer them all. Good system for criminals. Code. At their lunch Like to answer them all. Good system for criminals. Code. At their lunch
now. Clerk with the glasses there doesn't know me. O, leave them there to now. Clerk with the glasses there doesn't know me. O, leave them there to
simmer. Enough bother wading through fortyfour of them. Wanted, smart simmer. Enough bother wading through fortyfour of them. Wanted, smart
in gilded heels. First I'll have a go at you myself. A man I know on the in gilded heels. First I'll have a go at you myself. A man I know on the
turf named Charles Alberta Marsh (I was in bed with him just now and turf named Charles Alberta Marsh (I was in bed with him just now and
another gentleman out of the Hanaper and Petty Bag office) is on the another gentleman out of the Hanaper and Petty Bag office) is on the
lookout for a maid of all work at a short knock. Swell the bust. Smile. lookout for a maid of all work at a short knock. Swell the bust. Smile.
Droop shoulders. What offers? (HE POINTS) For that lot. Trained by owner Droop shoulders. What offers? (HE POINTS) For that lot. Trained by owner
to fetch and carry, basket in mouth. (HE BARES HIS ARM AND PLUNGES IT to fetch and carry, basket in mouth. (HE BARES HIS ARM AND PLUNGES IT
ELBOWDEEP IN BLOOM'S VULVA) There's fine depth for you! What, boys? That ELBOWDEEP IN BLOOM'S VULVA) There's fine depth for you! What, boys? That
give you a hardon? (HE SHOVES HIS ARM IN A BIDDER'S FACE) Here wet the give you a hardon? (HE SHOVES HIS ARM IN A BIDDER'S FACE) Here wet the
deck and wipe it round! deck and wipe it round!
A BIDDER: A florin. A BIDDER: A florin.
(DILLON'S LACQUEY RINGS HIS HANDBELL.) (DILLON'S LACQUEY RINGS HIS HANDBELL.)
THE LACQUEY: Barang! THE LACQUEY: Barang!
A VOICE: One and eightpence too much. A VOICE: One and eightpence too much.
CHARLES ALBERTA MARSH: Must be virgin. Good breath. Clean. CHARLES ALBERTA MARSH: Must be virgin. Good breath. Clean.
BELLO: (GIVES A RAP WITH HIS GAVEL) Two bar. Rockbottom figure and cheap BELLO: (GIVES A RAP WITH HIS GAVEL) Two bar. Rockbottom figure and cheap
at the price. Fourteen hands high. Touch and examine his points. Handle at the price. Fourteen hands high. Touch and examine his points. Handle
him. This downy skin, these soft muscles, this tender flesh. If I had him. This downy skin, these soft muscles, this tender flesh. If I had
only my gold piercer here! And quite easy to milk. Three newlaid gallons only my gold piercer here! And quite easy to milk. Three newlaid gallons
a day. A pure stockgetter, due to lay within the hour. His sire's milk a day. A pure stockgetter, due to lay within the hour. His sire's milk
record was a thousand gallons of whole milk in forty weeks. Whoa my record was a thousand gallons of whole milk in forty weeks. Whoa my
jewel! Beg up! Whoa! (HE BRANDS HIS INITIAL C ON BLOOM'S CROUP) So! jewel! Beg up! Whoa! (HE BRANDS HIS INITIAL C ON BLOOM'S CROUP) So!
Warranted Cohen! What advance on two bob, gentlemen? Warranted Cohen! What advance on two bob, gentlemen?
A DARKVISAGED MAN: (IN DISGUISED ACCENT) Hoondert punt sterlink. A DARKVISAGED MAN: (IN DISGUISED ACCENT) Hoondert punt sterlink.
VOICES: (SUBDUED) For the Caliph. Haroun Al Raschid. VOICES: (SUBDUED) For the Caliph. Haroun Al Raschid.
BELLO: (GAILY) Right. Let them all come. The scanty, daringly short BELLO: (GAILY) Right. Let them all come. The scanty, daringly short
skirt, riding up at the knee to show a peep of white pantalette, is a skirt, riding up at the knee to show a peep of white pantalette, is a
potent weapon and transparent stockings, emeraldgartered, with the long potent weapon and transparent stockings, emeraldgartered, with the long
straight seam trailing up beyond the knee, appeal to the better instincts straight seam trailing up beyond the knee, appeal to the better instincts
of the BLASE man about town. Learn the smooth mincing walk on four inch of the BLASE man about town. Learn the smooth mincing walk on four inch
Louis Quinze heels, the Grecian bend with provoking croup, the thighs Louis Quinze heels, the Grecian bend with provoking croup, the thighs
fluescent, knees modestly kissing. Bring all your powers of fascination fluescent, knees modestly kissing. Bring all your powers of fascination
to bear on them. Pander to their Gomorrahan vices. to bear on them. Pander to their Gomorrahan vices.
BLOOM: (BENDS HIS BLUSHING FACE INTO HIS ARMPIT AND SIMPERS WITH BLOOM: (BENDS HIS BLUSHING FACE INTO HIS ARMPIT AND SIMPERS WITH
FOREFINGER IN MOUTH) O, I know what you're hinting at now! FOREFINGER IN MOUTH) O, I know what you're hinting at now!
BELLO: What else are you good for, an impotent thing like you? (HE STOOPS BELLO: What else are you good for, an impotent thing like you? (HE STOOPS
AND, PEERING, POKES WITH HIS FAN RUDELY UNDER THE FAT SUET FOLDS OF AND, PEERING, POKES WITH HIS FAN RUDELY UNDER THE FAT SUET FOLDS OF
BLOOM'S HAUNCHES) Up! Up! Manx cat! What have we here? Where's your curly BLOOM'S HAUNCHES) Up! Up! Manx cat! What have we here? Where's your curly
teapot gone to or who docked it on you, cockyolly? Sing, birdy, sing. teapot gone to or who docked it on you, cockyolly? Sing, birdy, sing.
It's as limp as a boy of six's doing his pooly behind a cart. Buy a It's as limp as a boy of six's doing his pooly behind a cart. Buy a
bucket or sell your pump. (LOUDLY) Can you do a man's job? bucket or sell your pump. (LOUDLY) Can you do a man's job?
BLOOM: Eccles street ... BLOOM: Eccles street ...
BELLO: (SARCASTICALLY) I wouldn't hurt your feelings for the world but BELLO: (SARCASTICALLY) I wouldn't hurt your feelings for the world but
there's a man of brawn in possession there. The tables are turned, my gay there's a man of brawn in possession there. The tables are turned, my gay
young fellow! He is something like a fullgrown outdoor man. Well for you, young fellow! He is something like a fullgrown outdoor man. Well for you,
you muff, if you had that weapon with knobs and lumps and warts all over you muff, if you had that weapon with knobs and lumps and warts all over
it. He shot his bolt, I can tell you! Foot to foot, knee to knee, belly it. He shot his bolt, I can tell you! Foot to foot, knee to knee, belly
to belly, bubs to breast! He's no eunuch. A shock of red hair he has to belly, bubs to breast! He's no eunuch. A shock of red hair he has
sticking out of him behind like a furzebush! Wait for nine months, my sticking out of him behind like a furzebush! Wait for nine months, my
lad! Holy ginger, it's kicking and coughing up and down in her guts lad! Holy ginger, it's kicking and coughing up and down in her guts
already! That makes you wild, don't it? Touches the spot? (HE SPITS IN already! That makes you wild, don't it? Touches the spot? (HE SPITS IN
CONTEMPT) Spittoon! CONTEMPT) Spittoon!
BLOOM: I was indecently treated, I ... Inform the police. Hundred pounds. BLOOM: I was indecently treated, I ... Inform the police. Hundred pounds.
Unmentionable. I ... Unmentionable. I ...
BELLO: Would if you could, lame duck. A downpour we want not your BELLO: Would if you could, lame duck. A downpour we want not your
drizzle. drizzle.
BLOOM: To drive me mad! Moll! I forgot! Forgive! Moll ... We ... Still BLOOM: To drive me mad! Moll! I forgot! Forgive! Moll ... We ... Still
... ...
BELLO: (RUTHLESSLY) No, Leopold Bloom, all is changed by woman's will BELLO: (RUTHLESSLY) No, Leopold Bloom, all is changed by woman's will
since you slept horizontal in Sleepy Hollow your night of twenty years. since you slept horizontal in Sleepy Hollow your night of twenty years.
Return and see. Return and see.
(OLD SLEEPY HOLLOW CALLS OVER THE WOLD.) (OLD SLEEPY HOLLOW CALLS OVER THE WOLD.)
SLEEPY HOLLOW: Rip van Wink! Rip van Winkle! SLEEPY HOLLOW: Rip van Wink! Rip van Winkle!
BLOOM: (IN TATTERED MOCASSINS WITH A RUSTY FOWLINGPIECE, TIPTOEING, BLOOM: (IN TATTERED MOCASSINS WITH A RUSTY FOWLINGPIECE, TIPTOEING,
FINGERTIPPING, HIS HAGGARD BONY BEARDED FACE PEERING THROUGH THE DIAMOND FINGERTIPPING, HIS HAGGARD BONY BEARDED FACE PEERING THROUGH THE DIAMOND
PANES, CRIES OUT) I see her! It's she! The first night at Mat Dillon's! PANES, CRIES OUT) I see her! It's she! The first night at Mat Dillon's!
But that dress, the green! And her hair is dyed gold and he ... But that dress, the green! And her hair is dyed gold and he ...
BELLO: (LAUGHS MOCKINGLY) That's your daughter, you owl, with a Mullingar BELLO: (LAUGHS MOCKINGLY) That's your daughter, you owl, with a Mullingar
student. student.
(MILLY BLOOM, FAIRHAIRED, GREENVESTED, SLIMSANDALLED, HER BLUE SCARF IN (MILLY BLOOM, FAIRHAIRED, GREENVESTED, SLIMSANDALLED, HER BLUE SCARF IN
THE SEAWIND SIMPLY SWIRLING, BREAKS FROM THE ARMS OF HER LOVER AND CALLS, THE SEAWIND SIMPLY SWIRLING, BREAKS FROM THE ARMS OF HER LOVER AND CALLS,
HER YOUNG EYES WONDERWIDE.) HER YOUNG EYES WONDERWIDE.)
MILLY: My! It's Papli! But, O Papli, how old you've grown! MILLY: My! It's Papli! But, O Papli, how old you've grown!
BELLO: Changed, eh? Our whatnot, our writingtable where we never wrote, BELLO: Changed, eh? Our whatnot, our writingtable where we never wrote,
aunt Hegarty's armchair, our classic reprints of old masters. A man and aunt Hegarty's armchair, our classic reprints of old masters. A man and
his menfriends are living there in clover. The CUCKOOS' REST! Why not? his menfriends are living there in clover. The CUCKOOS' REST! Why not?
How many women had you, eh, following them up dark streets, flatfoot, How many women had you, eh, following them up dark streets, flatfoot,
exciting them by your smothered grunts, what, you male prostitute? exciting them by your smothered grunts, what, you male prostitute?
Blameless dames with parcels of groceries. Turn about. Sauce for the Blameless dames with parcels of groceries. Turn about. Sauce for the
goose, my gander O. goose, my gander O.
BLOOM: They ... I ... BLOOM: They ... I ...
BELLO: (CUTTINGLY) Their heelmarks will stamp the Brusselette carpet you BELLO: (CUTTINGLY) Their heelmarks will stamp the Brusselette carpet you
bought at Wren's auction. In their horseplay with Moll the romp to find bought at Wren's auction. In their horseplay with Moll the romp to find
the buck flea in her breeches they will deface the little statue you the buck flea in her breeches they will deface the little statue you
carried home in the rain for art for art' sake. They will violate the carried home in the rain for art for art' sake. They will violate the
secrets of your bottom drawer. Pages will be torn from your handbook of secrets of your bottom drawer. Pages will be torn from your handbook of
astronomy to make them pipespills. And they will spit in your ten astronomy to make them pipespills. And they will spit in your ten
shilling brass fender from Hampton Leedom's. shilling brass fender from Hampton Leedom's.
BLOOM: Ten and six. The act of low scoundrels. Let me go. I will return. BLOOM: Ten and six. The act of low scoundrels. Let me go. I will return.
I will prove ... I will prove ...
A VOICE: Swear! A VOICE: Swear!
(BLOOM CLENCHES HIS FISTS AND CRAWLS FORWARD, A BOWIEKNIFE BETWEEN HIS (BLOOM CLENCHES HIS FISTS AND CRAWLS FORWARD, A BOWIEKNIFE BETWEEN HIS
TEETH.) TEETH.)
BELLO: As a paying guest or a kept man? Too late. You have made your BELLO: As a paying guest or a kept man? Too late. You have made your
secondbest bed and others must lie in it. Your epitaph is written. You secondbest bed and others must lie in it. Your epitaph is written. You
are down and out and don't you forget it, old bean. are down and out and don't you forget it, old bean.
BLOOM: Justice! All Ireland versus one! Has nobody ...? (HE BITES HIS BLOOM: Justice! All Ireland versus one! Has nobody ...? (HE BITES HIS
THUMB) THUMB)
BELLO: Die and be damned to you if you have any sense of decency or grace BELLO: Die and be damned to you if you have any sense of decency or grace
about you. I can give you a rare old wine that'll send you skipping to about you. I can give you a rare old wine that'll send you skipping to
hell and back. Sign a will and leave us any coin you have! If you have hell and back. Sign a will and leave us any coin you have! If you have
none see you damn well get it, steal it, rob it! We'll bury you in our none see you damn well get it, steal it, rob it! We'll bury you in our
shrubbery jakes where you'll be dead and dirty with old Cuck Cohen, my shrubbery jakes where you'll be dead and dirty with old Cuck Cohen, my
stepnephew I married, the bloody old gouty procurator and sodomite with a stepnephew I married, the bloody old gouty procurator and sodomite with a
crick in his neck, and my other ten or eleven husbands, whatever the crick in his neck, and my other ten or eleven husbands, whatever the
buggers' names were, suffocated in the one cesspool. (HE EXPLODES IN A buggers' names were, suffocated in the one cesspool. (HE EXPLODES IN A
LOUD PHLEGMY LAUGH) We'll manure you, Mr Flower! (HE PIPES SCOFFINGLY) LOUD PHLEGMY LAUGH) We'll manure you, Mr Flower! (HE PIPES SCOFFINGLY)
Byby, Poldy! Byby, Papli! Byby, Poldy! Byby, Papli!
BLOOM: (CLASPS HIS HEAD) My willpower! Memory! I have sinned! I have suff BLOOM: (CLASPS HIS HEAD) My willpower! Memory! I have sinned! I have suff
... ...
(HE WEEPS TEARLESSLY) (HE WEEPS TEARLESSLY)
BELLO: (SNEERS) Crybabby! Crocodile tears! BELLO: (SNEERS) Crybabby! Crocodile tears!
(BLOOM, BROKEN, CLOSELY VEILED FOR THE SACRIFICE, SOBS, HIS FACE TO THE (BLOOM, BROKEN, CLOSELY VEILED FOR THE SACRIFICE, SOBS, HIS FACE TO THE
EARTH. THE PASSING BELL IS HEARD. DARKSHAWLED FIGURES OF THE CIRCUMCISED, EARTH. THE PASSING BELL IS HEARD. DARKSHAWLED FIGURES OF THE CIRCUMCISED,
IN SACKCLOTH AND ASHES, STAND BY THE WAILING WALL. M. SHULOMOWITZ, JOSEPH IN SACKCLOTH AND ASHES, STAND BY THE WAILING WALL. M. SHULOMOWITZ, JOSEPH
GOLDWATER, MOSES HERZOG, HARRIS ROSENBERG, M. MOISEL, J. CITRON, MINNIE GOLDWATER, MOSES HERZOG, HARRIS ROSENBERG, M. MOISEL, J. CITRON, MINNIE
WATCHMAN, P. MASTIANSKY, THE REVEREND LEOPOLD ABRAMOVITZ, CHAZEN. WITH WATCHMAN, P. MASTIANSKY, THE REVEREND LEOPOLD ABRAMOVITZ, CHAZEN. WITH
SWAYING ARMS THEY WAIL IN PNEUMA OVER THE RECREANT BLOOM.) SWAYING ARMS THEY WAIL IN PNEUMA OVER THE RECREANT BLOOM.)
THE CIRCUMCISED: (IN DARK GUTTURAL CHANT AS THEY CAST DEAD SEA FRUIT UPON THE CIRCUMCISED: (IN DARK GUTTURAL CHANT AS THEY CAST DEAD SEA FRUIT UPON
HIM, NO FLOWERS) SHEMA ISRAEL ADONAI ELOHENU ADONAI ECHAD. HIM, NO FLOWERS) SHEMA ISRAEL ADONAI ELOHENU ADONAI ECHAD.
VOICES: (SIGHING) So he's gone. Ah yes. Yes, indeed. Bloom? Never heard VOICES: (SIGHING) So he's gone. Ah yes. Yes, indeed. Bloom? Never heard
of him. No? Queer kind of chap. There's the widow. That so? Ah, yes. of him. No? Queer kind of chap. There's the widow. That so? Ah, yes.
(FROM THE SUTTEE PYRE THE FLAME OF GUM CAMPHIRE ASCENDS. THE PALL OF (FROM THE SUTTEE PYRE THE FLAME OF GUM CAMPHIRE ASCENDS. THE PALL OF
INCENSE SMOKE SCREENS AND DISPERSES. OUT OF HER OAKFRAME A NYMPH WITH INCENSE SMOKE SCREENS AND DISPERSES. OUT OF HER OAKFRAME A NYMPH WITH
HAIR UNBOUND, LIGHTLY CLAD IN TEABROWN ARTCOLOURS, DESCENDS FROM HER HAIR UNBOUND, LIGHTLY CLAD IN TEABROWN ARTCOLOURS, DESCENDS FROM HER
GROTTO AND PASSING UNDER INTERLACING YEWS STANDS OVER BLOOM.) GROTTO AND PASSING UNDER INTERLACING YEWS STANDS OVER BLOOM.)
THE YEWS: (THEIR LEAVES WHISPERING) Sister. Our sister. Ssh! THE YEWS: (THEIR LEAVES WHISPERING) Sister. Our sister. Ssh!
THE NYMPH: (SOFTLY) Mortal! (KINDLY) Nay, dost not weepest! THE NYMPH: (SOFTLY) Mortal! (KINDLY) Nay, dost not weepest!
BLOOM: (CRAWLS JELLILY FORWARD UNDER THE BOUGHS, STREAKED BY SUNLIGHT, BLOOM: (CRAWLS JELLILY FORWARD UNDER THE BOUGHS, STREAKED BY SUNLIGHT,
WITH DIGNITY) This position. I felt it was expected of me. Force of WITH DIGNITY) This position. I felt it was expected of me. Force of
habit. habit.
THE NYMPH: Mortal! You found me in evil company, highkickers, coster THE NYMPH: Mortal! You found me in evil company, highkickers, coster
picnicmakers, pugilists, popular generals, immoral panto boys in picnicmakers, pugilists, popular generals, immoral panto boys in
fleshtights and the nifty shimmy dancers, La Aurora and Karini, musical fleshtights and the nifty shimmy dancers, La Aurora and Karini, musical
act, the hit of the century. I was hidden in cheap pink paper that smelt act, the hit of the century. I was hidden in cheap pink paper that smelt
of rock oil. I was surrounded by the stale smut of clubmen, stories to of rock oil. I was surrounded by the stale smut of clubmen, stories to
disturb callow youth, ads for transparencies, truedup dice and bustpads, disturb callow youth, ads for transparencies, truedup dice and bustpads,
proprietary articles and why wear a truss with testimonial from ruptured proprietary articles and why wear a truss with testimonial from ruptured
gentleman. Useful hints to the married. gentleman. Useful hints to the married.
BLOOM: (LIFTS A TURTLE HEAD TOWARDS HER LAP) We have met before. On BLOOM: (LIFTS A TURTLE HEAD TOWARDS HER LAP) We have met before. On
another star. another star.
THE NYMPH: (SADLY) Rubber goods. Neverrip brand as supplied to the THE NYMPH: (SADLY) Rubber goods. Neverrip brand as supplied to the
aristocracy. Corsets for men. I cure fits or money refunded. Unsolicited aristocracy. Corsets for men. I cure fits or money refunded. Unsolicited
testimonials for Professor Waldmann's wonderful chest exuber. My bust testimonials for Professor Waldmann's wonderful chest exuber. My bust
developed four inches in three weeks, reports Mrs Gus Rublin with photo. developed four inches in three weeks, reports Mrs Gus Rublin with photo.
BLOOM: You mean PHOTO BITS? BLOOM: You mean PHOTO BITS?
THE NYMPH: I do. You bore me away, framed me in oak and tinsel, set me THE NYMPH: I do. You bore me away, framed me in oak and tinsel, set me
above your marriage couch. Unseen, one summer eve, you kissed me in four above your marriage couch. Unseen, one summer eve, you kissed me in four
places. And with loving pencil you shaded my eyes, my bosom and my shame. places. And with loving pencil you shaded my eyes, my bosom and my shame.
BLOOM: (HUMBLY KISSES HER LONG HAIR) Your classic curves, beautiful BLOOM: (HUMBLY KISSES HER LONG HAIR) Your classic curves, beautiful
immortal, I was glad to look on you, to praise you, a thing of beauty, immortal, I was glad to look on you, to praise you, a thing of beauty,
almost to pray. almost to pray.
THE NYMPH: During dark nights I heard your praise. THE NYMPH: During dark nights I heard your praise.
BLOOM: (QUICKLY) Yes, yes. You mean that I ... Sleep reveals the worst BLOOM: (QUICKLY) Yes, yes. You mean that I ... Sleep reveals the worst
side of everyone, children perhaps excepted. I know I fell out of bed or side of everyone, children perhaps excepted. I know I fell out of bed or
rather was pushed. Steel wine is said to cure snoring. For the rest there rather was pushed. Steel wine is said to cure snoring. For the rest there
is that English invention, pamphlet of which I received some days ago, is that English invention, pamphlet of which I received some days ago,
incorrectly addressed. It claims to afford a noiseless, inoffensive vent. incorrectly addressed. It claims to afford a noiseless, inoffensive vent.
(HE SIGHS) 'Twas ever thus. Frailty, thy name is marriage. (HE SIGHS) 'Twas ever thus. Frailty, thy name is marriage.
THE NYMPH: (HER FINGERS IN HER EARS) And words. They are not in my THE NYMPH: (HER FINGERS IN HER EARS) And words. They are not in my
dictionary. dictionary.
BLOOM: You understood them? BLOOM: You understood them?
THE YEWS: Ssh! THE YEWS: Ssh!
THE NYMPH: (COVERS HER FACE WITH HER HANDS) What have I not seen in that THE NYMPH: (COVERS HER FACE WITH HER HANDS) What have I not seen in that
chamber? What must my eyes look down on? chamber? What must my eyes look down on?
BLOOM: (APOLOGETICALLY) I know. Soiled personal linen, wrong side up with BLOOM: (APOLOGETICALLY) I know. Soiled personal linen, wrong side up with
care. The quoits are loose. From Gibraltar by long sea long ago. care. The quoits are loose. From Gibraltar by long sea long ago.
THE NYMPH: (BENDS HER HEAD) Worse, worse! THE NYMPH: (BENDS HER HEAD) Worse, worse!
BLOOM: (REFLECTS PRECAUTIOUSLY) That antiquated commode. It wasn't her BLOOM: (REFLECTS PRECAUTIOUSLY) That antiquated commode. It wasn't her
weight. She scaled just eleven stone nine. She put on nine pounds after weight. She scaled just eleven stone nine. She put on nine pounds after
weaning. It was a crack and want of glue. Eh? And that absurd orangekeyed weaning. It was a crack and want of glue. Eh? And that absurd orangekeyed
utensil which has only one handle. utensil which has only one handle.
(THE SOUND OF A WATERFALL IS HEARD IN BRIGHT CASCADE.) (THE SOUND OF A WATERFALL IS HEARD IN BRIGHT CASCADE.)
THE WATERFALL: THE WATERFALL:
    Poulaphouca Poulaphouca     Poulaphouca Poulaphouca
    Poulaphouca Poulaphouca.     Poulaphouca Poulaphouca.
THE YEWS: (MINGLING THEIR BOUGHS) Listen. Whisper. She is right, our THE YEWS: (MINGLING THEIR BOUGHS) Listen. Whisper. She is right, our
sister. We grew by Poulaphouca waterfall. We gave shade on languorous sister. We grew by Poulaphouca waterfall. We gave shade on languorous
summer days. summer days.
JOHN WYSE NOLAN: (IN THE BACKGROUND, IN IRISH NATIONAL FORESTER'S JOHN WYSE NOLAN: (IN THE BACKGROUND, IN IRISH NATIONAL FORESTER'S
UNIFORM, DOFFS HIS PLUMED HAT) Prosper! Give shade on languorous days, UNIFORM, DOFFS HIS PLUMED HAT) Prosper! Give shade on languorous days,
trees of Ireland! trees of Ireland!
THE YEWS: (MURMURING) Who came to Poulaphouca with the High School THE YEWS: (MURMURING) Who came to Poulaphouca with the High School
excursion? Who left his nutquesting classmates to seek our shade? excursion? Who left his nutquesting classmates to seek our shade?
BLOOM: (SCARED) High School of Poula? Mnemo? Not in full possession of BLOOM: (SCARED) High School of Poula? Mnemo? Not in full possession of
faculties. Concussion. Run over by tram. faculties. Concussion. Run over by tram.
THE ECHO: Sham! THE ECHO: Sham!
BLOOM: (PIGEONBREASTED, BOTTLESHOULDERED, PADDED, IN NONDESCRIPT JUVENILE BLOOM: (PIGEONBREASTED, BOTTLESHOULDERED, PADDED, IN NONDESCRIPT JUVENILE
GREY AND BLACK STRIPED SUIT, TOO SMALL FOR HIM, WHITE TENNIS SHOES, GREY AND BLACK STRIPED SUIT, TOO SMALL FOR HIM, WHITE TENNIS SHOES,
BORDERED STOCKINGS WITH TURNOVER TOPS AND A RED SCHOOLCAP WITH BADGE) I BORDERED STOCKINGS WITH TURNOVER TOPS AND A RED SCHOOLCAP WITH BADGE) I
was in my teens, a growing boy. A little then sufficed, a jolting car, was in my teens, a growing boy. A little then sufficed, a jolting car,
the mingling odours of the ladies' cloakroom and lavatory, the throng the mingling odours of the ladies' cloakroom and lavatory, the throng
penned tight on the old Royal stairs (for they love crushes, instinct of penned tight on the old Royal stairs (for they love crushes, instinct of
the herd, and the dark sexsmelling theatre unbridles vice), even a the herd, and the dark sexsmelling theatre unbridles vice), even a
pricelist of their hosiery. And then the heat. There were sunspots that pricelist of their hosiery. And then the heat. There were sunspots that
summer. End of school. And tipsycake. Halcyon days. summer. End of school. And tipsycake. Halcyon days.
(HALCYON DAYS, HIGH SCHOOL BOYS IN BLUE AND WHITE FOOTBALL JERSEYS AND (HALCYON DAYS, HIGH SCHOOL BOYS IN BLUE AND WHITE FOOTBALL JERSEYS AND
SHORTS, MASTER DONALD TURNBULL, MASTER ABRAHAM CHATTERTON, MASTER OWEN SHORTS, MASTER DONALD TURNBULL, MASTER ABRAHAM CHATTERTON, MASTER OWEN
GOLDBERG, MASTER JACK MEREDITH, MASTER PERCY APJOHN, STAND IN A CLEARING GOLDBERG, MASTER JACK MEREDITH, MASTER PERCY APJOHN, STAND IN A CLEARING
OF THE TREES AND SHOUT TO MASTER LEOPOLD BLOOM.) OF THE TREES AND SHOUT TO MASTER LEOPOLD BLOOM.)
THE HALCYON DAYS: Mackerel! Live us again. Hurray! (THEY CHEER) THE HALCYON DAYS: Mackerel! Live us again. Hurray! (THEY CHEER)
BLOOM: (HOBBLEDEHOY, WARMGLOVED, MAMMAMUFFLERED, STARRED WITH SPENT BLOOM: (HOBBLEDEHOY, WARMGLOVED, MAMMAMUFFLERED, STARRED WITH SPENT
SNOWBALLS, STRUGGLES TO RISE) Again! I feel sixteen! What a lark! Let's SNOWBALLS, STRUGGLES TO RISE) Again! I feel sixteen! What a lark! Let's
ring all the bells in Montague street. (HE CHEERS FEEBLY) Hurray for the ring all the bells in Montague street. (HE CHEERS FEEBLY) Hurray for the
High School! High School!
THE ECHO: Fool! THE ECHO: Fool!
THE YEWS: (RUSTLING) She is right, our sister. Whisper. (WHISPERED KISSES THE YEWS: (RUSTLING) She is right, our sister. Whisper. (WHISPERED KISSES
ARE HEARD IN ALL THE WOOD. FACES OF HAMADRYADS PEEP OUT FROM THE BOLES ARE HEARD IN ALL THE WOOD. FACES OF HAMADRYADS PEEP OUT FROM THE BOLES
AND AMONG THE LEAVES AND BREAK, BLOSSOMING INTO BLOOM.) Who profaned our AND AMONG THE LEAVES AND BREAK, BLOSSOMING INTO BLOOM.) Who profaned our
silent shade? silent shade?
THE NYMPH: (COYLY, THROUGH PARTING FINGERS) There? In the open air? THE NYMPH: (COYLY, THROUGH PARTING FINGERS) There? In the open air?
THE YEWS: (SWEEPING DOWNWARD) Sister, yes. And on our virgin sward. THE YEWS: (SWEEPING DOWNWARD) Sister, yes. And on our virgin sward.
THE WATERFALL: THE WATERFALL:
    Poulaphouca Poulaphouca     Poulaphouca Poulaphouca
    Phoucaphouca Phoucaphouca.     Phoucaphouca Phoucaphouca.
THE NYMPH: (WITH WIDE FINGERS) O, infamy! THE NYMPH: (WITH WIDE FINGERS) O, infamy!
BLOOM: I was precocious. Youth. The fauna. I sacrificed to the god of the BLOOM: I was precocious. Youth. The fauna. I sacrificed to the god of the
forest. The flowers that bloom in the spring. It was pairing time. forest. The flowers that bloom in the spring. It was pairing time.
Capillary attraction is a natural phenomenon. Lotty Clarke, flaxenhaired, Capillary attraction is a natural phenomenon. Lotty Clarke, flaxenhaired,
I saw at her night toilette through illclosed curtains with poor papa's I saw at her night toilette through illclosed curtains with poor papa's
operaglasses: The wanton ate grass wildly. She rolled downhill at Rialto operaglasses: The wanton ate grass wildly. She rolled downhill at Rialto
bridge to tempt me with her flow of animal spirits. She climbed their bridge to tempt me with her flow of animal spirits. She climbed their
crooked tree and I ... A saint couldn't resist it. The demon possessed crooked tree and I ... A saint couldn't resist it. The demon possessed
me. Besides, who saw? me. Besides, who saw?
(STAGGERING BOB, A WHITEPOLLED CALF, THRUSTS A RUMINATING HEAD WITH HUMID (STAGGERING BOB, A WHITEPOLLED CALF, THRUSTS A RUMINATING HEAD WITH HUMID
NOSTRILS THROUGH THE FOLIAGE.) NOSTRILS THROUGH THE FOLIAGE.)
STAGGERING BOB: (LARGE TEARDROPS ROLLING FROM HIS PROMINENT EYES, STAGGERING BOB: (LARGE TEARDROPS ROLLING FROM HIS PROMINENT EYES,
SNIVELS) Me. Me see. SNIVELS) Me. Me see.
BLOOM: Simply satisfying a need I ... (WITH PATHOS) No girl would when I BLOOM: Simply satisfying a need I ... (WITH PATHOS) No girl would when I
went girling. Too ugly. They wouldn't play ... went girling. Too ugly. They wouldn't play ...
(HIGH ON BEN HOWTH THROUGH RHODODENDRONS A NANNYGOAT PASSES, (HIGH ON BEN HOWTH THROUGH RHODODENDRONS A NANNYGOAT PASSES,
PLUMPUDDERED, BUTTYTAILED, DROPPING CURRANTS.) PLUMPUDDERED, BUTTYTAILED, DROPPING CURRANTS.)
THE NANNYGOAT: (BLEATS) Megeggaggegg! Nannannanny! THE NANNYGOAT: (BLEATS) Megeggaggegg! Nannannanny!
BLOOM: (HATLESS, FLUSHED, COVERED WITH BURRS OF THISTLEDOWN AND BLOOM: (HATLESS, FLUSHED, COVERED WITH BURRS OF THISTLEDOWN AND
GORSESPINE) Regularly engaged. Circumstances alter cases. (HE GAZES GORSESPINE) Regularly engaged. Circumstances alter cases. (HE GAZES
INTENTLY DOWNWARDS ON THE WATER) Thirtytwo head over heels per second. INTENTLY DOWNWARDS ON THE WATER) Thirtytwo head over heels per second.
Press nightmare. Giddy Elijah. Fall from cliff. Sad end of government Press nightmare. Giddy Elijah. Fall from cliff. Sad end of government
printer's clerk. (THROUGH SILVERSILENT SUMMER AIR THE DUMMY OF BLOOM, printer's clerk. (THROUGH SILVERSILENT SUMMER AIR THE DUMMY OF BLOOM,
ROLLED IN A MUMMY, ROLLS ROTEATINGLY FROM THE LION'S HEAD CLIFF INTO THE ROLLED IN A MUMMY, ROLLS ROTEATINGLY FROM THE LION'S HEAD CLIFF INTO THE
PURPLE WAITING WATERS.) PURPLE WAITING WATERS.)
THE DUMMYMUMMY: Bbbbblllllblblblblobschbg! THE DUMMYMUMMY: Bbbbblllllblblblblobschbg!
(FAR OUT IN THE BAY BETWEEN BAILEY AND KISH LIGHTS THE Erin's King SAILS, (FAR OUT IN THE BAY BETWEEN BAILEY AND KISH LIGHTS THE Erin's King SAILS,
SENDING A BROADENING PLUME OF COALSMOKE FROM HER FUNNEL TOWARDS THE SENDING A BROADENING PLUME OF COALSMOKE FROM HER FUNNEL TOWARDS THE
LAND.) LAND.)
COUNCILLOR NANNETII: (ALONE ON DECK, IN DARK ALPACA, YELLOWKITEFACED, HIS COUNCILLOR NANNETII: (ALONE ON DECK, IN DARK ALPACA, YELLOWKITEFACED, HIS
HAND IN HIS WAISTCOAT OPENING, DECLAIMS) When my country takes her place HAND IN HIS WAISTCOAT OPENING, DECLAIMS) When my country takes her place
among the nations of the earth, then, and not till then, let my epitaph among the nations of the earth, then, and not till then, let my epitaph
be written. I have ... be written. I have ...
BLOOM: Done. Prff! BLOOM: Done. Prff!
THE NYMPH: (LOFTILY) We immortals, as you saw today, have not such a THE NYMPH: (LOFTILY) We immortals, as you saw today, have not such a
place and no hair there either. We are stonecold and pure. We eat place and no hair there either. We are stonecold and pure. We eat
electric light. (SHE ARCHES HER BODY IN LASCIVIOUS CRISPATION, PLACING electric light. (SHE ARCHES HER BODY IN LASCIVIOUS CRISPATION, PLACING
HER FOREFINGER IN HER MOUTH) Spoke to me. Heard from behind. How then HER FOREFINGER IN HER MOUTH) Spoke to me. Heard from behind. How then
could you ...? could you ...?
BLOOM: (PAWING THE HEATHER ABJECTLY) O, I have been a perfect pig. Enemas BLOOM: (PAWING THE HEATHER ABJECTLY) O, I have been a perfect pig. Enemas
too I have administered. One third of a pint of quassia to which add a too I have administered. One third of a pint of quassia to which add a
tablespoonful of rocksalt. Up the fundament. With Hamilton Long's tablespoonful of rocksalt. Up the fundament. With Hamilton Long's
syringe, the ladies' friend. syringe, the ladies' friend.
THE NYMPH: In my presence. The powderpuff. (SHE BLUSHES AND MAKES A KNEE) THE NYMPH: In my presence. The powderpuff. (SHE BLUSHES AND MAKES A KNEE)
And the rest! And the rest!
BLOOM: (DEJECTED) Yes. PECCAVI! I have paid homage on that living altar BLOOM: (DEJECTED) Yes. PECCAVI! I have paid homage on that living altar
where the back changes name. (WITH SUDDEN FERVOUR) For why should the where the back changes name. (WITH SUDDEN FERVOUR) For why should the
dainty scented jewelled hand, the hand that rules ...? dainty scented jewelled hand, the hand that rules ...?
(FIGURES WIND SERPENTING IN SLOW WOODLAND PATTERN AROUND THE TREESTEMS, (FIGURES WIND SERPENTING IN SLOW WOODLAND PATTERN AROUND THE TREESTEMS,
COOEEING) COOEEING)
THE VOICE OF KITTY: (IN THE THICKET) Show us one of them cushions. THE VOICE OF KITTY: (IN THE THICKET) Show us one of them cushions.
THE VOICE OF FLORRY: Here. THE VOICE OF FLORRY: Here.
(A GROUSE WINGS CLUMSILY THROUGH THE UNDERWOOD.) (A GROUSE WINGS CLUMSILY THROUGH THE UNDERWOOD.)
THE VOICE OF LYNCH: (IN THE THICKET) Whew! Piping hot! THE VOICE OF LYNCH: (IN THE THICKET) Whew! Piping hot!
THE VOICE OF ZOE: (FROM THE THICKET) Came from a hot place. THE VOICE OF ZOE: (FROM THE THICKET) Came from a hot place.
THE VOICE OF VIRAG: (A BIRDCHIEF, BLUESTREAKED AND FEATHERED IN WAR THE VOICE OF VIRAG: (A BIRDCHIEF, BLUESTREAKED AND FEATHERED IN WAR
PANOPLY WITH HIS ASSEGAI, STRIDING THROUGH A CRACKLING CANEBRAKE OVER PANOPLY WITH HIS ASSEGAI, STRIDING THROUGH A CRACKLING CANEBRAKE OVER
BEECHMAST AND ACORNS) Hot! Hot! Ware Sitting Bull! BEECHMAST AND ACORNS) Hot! Hot! Ware Sitting Bull!
BLOOM: It overpowers me. The warm impress of her warm form. Even to sit BLOOM: It overpowers me. The warm impress of her warm form. Even to sit
where a woman has sat, especially with divaricated thighs, as though to where a woman has sat, especially with divaricated thighs, as though to
grant the last favours, most especially with previously well uplifted grant the last favours, most especially with previously well uplifted
white sateen coatpans. So womanly, full. It fills me full. white sateen coatpans. So womanly, full. It fills me full.
THE WATERFALL: THE WATERFALL:
    Phillaphulla Poulaphouca     Phillaphulla Poulaphouca
    Poulaphouca Poulaphouca.     Poulaphouca Poulaphouca.
THE YEWS: Ssh! Sister, speak! THE YEWS: Ssh! Sister, speak!
THE NYMPH: (EYELESS, IN NUN'S WHITE HABIT, COIF AND HUGEWINGED WIMPLE, THE NYMPH: (EYELESS, IN NUN'S WHITE HABIT, COIF AND HUGEWINGED WIMPLE,
SOFTLY, WITH REMOTE EYES) Tranquilla convent. Sister Agatha. Mount SOFTLY, WITH REMOTE EYES) Tranquilla convent. Sister Agatha. Mount
Carmel. The apparitions of Knock and Lourdes. No more desire. (SHE Carmel. The apparitions of Knock and Lourdes. No more desire. (SHE
RECLINES HER HEAD, SIGHING) Only the ethereal. Where dreamy creamy gull RECLINES HER HEAD, SIGHING) Only the ethereal. Where dreamy creamy gull
waves o'er the waters dull. waves o'er the waters dull.
(BLOOM HALF RISES. HIS BACK TROUSERBUTTON SNAPS.) (BLOOM HALF RISES. HIS BACK TROUSERBUTTON SNAPS.)
THE BUTTON: Bip! THE BUTTON: Bip!
(TWO SLUTS OF THE COOMBE DANCE RAINILY BY, SHAWLED, YELLING FLATLY.) (TWO SLUTS OF THE COOMBE DANCE RAINILY BY, SHAWLED, YELLING FLATLY.)
THE SLUTS: THE SLUTS:
    O, Leopold lost the pin of his drawers     O, Leopold lost the pin of his drawers
    He didn't know what to do,     He didn't know what to do,
    To keep it up,     To keep it up,
    To keep it up.     To keep it up.
BLOOM: (COLDLY) You have broken the spell. The last straw. If there were BLOOM: (COLDLY) You have broken the spell. The last straw. If there were
only ethereal where would you all be, postulants and novices? Shy but only ethereal where would you all be, postulants and novices? Shy but
willing like an ass pissing. willing like an ass pissing.
THE YEWS: (THEIR SILVERFOIL OF LEAVES PRECIPITATING, THEIR SKINNY ARMS THE YEWS: (THEIR SILVERFOIL OF LEAVES PRECIPITATING, THEIR SKINNY ARMS
AGING AND SWAYING) Deciduously! AGING AND SWAYING) Deciduously!
THE NYMPH: (her features hardening, gropes in the folds of her habit) THE NYMPH: (her features hardening, gropes in the folds of her habit)
Sacrilege! To attempt my virtue! (A LARGE MOIST STAIN APPEARS ON HER Sacrilege! To attempt my virtue! (A LARGE MOIST STAIN APPEARS ON HER
ROBE) Sully my innocence! You are not fit to touch the garment of a pure ROBE) Sully my innocence! You are not fit to touch the garment of a pure
woman. (SHE CLUTCHES AGAIN IN HER ROBE) Wait. Satan, you'll sing no more woman. (SHE CLUTCHES AGAIN IN HER ROBE) Wait. Satan, you'll sing no more
lovesongs. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. (SHE DRAWS A PONIARD AND, CLAD IN THE lovesongs. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. (SHE DRAWS A PONIARD AND, CLAD IN THE
SHEATHMAIL OF AN ELECTED KNIGHT OF NINE, STRIKES AT HIS LOINS) Nekum! SHEATHMAIL OF AN ELECTED KNIGHT OF NINE, STRIKES AT HIS LOINS) Nekum!
BLOOM: (STARTS UP, SEIZES HER HAND) Hoy! Nebrakada! Cat o' nine lives! BLOOM: (STARTS UP, SEIZES HER HAND) Hoy! Nebrakada! Cat o' nine lives!
Fair play, madam. No pruningknife. The fox and the grapes, is it? What do Fair play, madam. No pruningknife. The fox and the grapes, is it? What do
you lack with your barbed wire? Crucifix not thick enough? (HE CLUTCHES you lack with your barbed wire? Crucifix not thick enough? (HE CLUTCHES
HER VEIL) A holy abbot you want or Brophy, the lame gardener, or the HER VEIL) A holy abbot you want or Brophy, the lame gardener, or the
spoutless statue of the watercarrier, or good mother Alphonsus, eh spoutless statue of the watercarrier, or good mother Alphonsus, eh
Reynard? Reynard?
THE NYMPH: (WITH A CRY FLEES FROM HIM UNVEILED, HER PLASTER CAST THE NYMPH: (WITH A CRY FLEES FROM HIM UNVEILED, HER PLASTER CAST
CRACKING, A CLOUD OF STENCH ESCAPING FROM THE CRACKS) Poli ...! CRACKING, A CLOUD OF STENCH ESCAPING FROM THE CRACKS) Poli ...!
BLOOM: (CALLS AFTER HER) As if you didn't get it on the double BLOOM: (CALLS AFTER HER) As if you didn't get it on the double
yourselves. No jerks and multiple mucosities all over you. I tried it. yourselves. No jerks and multiple mucosities all over you. I tried it.
Your strength our weakness. What's our studfee? What will you pay on the Your strength our weakness. What's our studfee? What will you pay on the
nail? You fee mendancers on the Riviera, I read. (THE FLEEING NYMPH nail? You fee mendancers on the Riviera, I read. (THE FLEEING NYMPH
RAISES A KEEN) Eh? I have sixteen years of black slave labour behind me. RAISES A KEEN) Eh? I have sixteen years of black slave labour behind me.
And would a jury give me five shillings alimony tomorrow, eh? Fool And would a jury give me five shillings alimony tomorrow, eh? Fool
someone else, not me. (HE SNIFFS) Rut. Onions. Stale. Sulphur. Grease. someone else, not me. (HE SNIFFS) Rut. Onions. Stale. Sulphur. Grease.
(THE FIGURE OF BELLA COHEN STANDS BEFORE HIM.) (THE FIGURE OF BELLA COHEN STANDS BEFORE HIM.)
BELLA: You'll know me the next time. BELLA: You'll know me the next time.
BLOOM: (COMPOSED, REGARDS HER) Passee. Mutton dressed as lamb. Long in BLOOM: (COMPOSED, REGARDS HER) Passee. Mutton dressed as lamb. Long in
the tooth and superfluous hair. A raw onion the last thing at night would the tooth and superfluous hair. A raw onion the last thing at night would
benefit your complexion. And take some double chin drill. Your eyes are benefit your complexion. And take some double chin drill. Your eyes are
as vapid as the glasseyes of your stuffed fox. They have the dimensions as vapid as the glasseyes of your stuffed fox. They have the dimensions
of your other features, that's all. I'm not a triple screw propeller. of your other features, that's all. I'm not a triple screw propeller.
BELLA: (CONTEMPTUOUSLY) You're not game, in fact. (HER SOWCUNT BARKS) BELLA: (CONTEMPTUOUSLY) You're not game, in fact. (HER SOWCUNT BARKS)
Fbhracht! Fbhracht!
BLOOM: (CONTEMPTUOUSLY) Clean your nailless middle finger first, your BLOOM: (CONTEMPTUOUSLY) Clean your nailless middle finger first, your
bully's cold spunk is dripping from your cockscomb. Take a handful of hay bully's cold spunk is dripping from your cockscomb. Take a handful of hay
and wipe yourself. and wipe yourself.
BELLA: I know you, canvasser! Dead cod! BELLA: I know you, canvasser! Dead cod!
BLOOM: I saw him, kipkeeper! Pox and gleet vendor! BLOOM: I saw him, kipkeeper! Pox and gleet vendor!
BELLA: (TURNS TO THE PIANO) Which of you was playing the dead march from BELLA: (TURNS TO THE PIANO) Which of you was playing the dead march from
SAUL? SAUL?
ZOE: Me. Mind your cornflowers. (SHE DARTS TO THE PIANO AND BANGS CHORDS ZOE: Me. Mind your cornflowers. (SHE DARTS TO THE PIANO AND BANGS CHORDS
ON IT WITH CROSSED ARMS) The cat's ramble through the slag. (SHE GLANCES ON IT WITH CROSSED ARMS) The cat's ramble through the slag. (SHE GLANCES
BACK) Eh? Who's making love to my sweeties? (SHE DARTS BACK TO THE TABLE) BACK) Eh? Who's making love to my sweeties? (SHE DARTS BACK TO THE TABLE)
What's yours is mine and what's mine is my own. What's yours is mine and what's mine is my own.
(KITTY, DISCONCERTED, COATS HER TEETH WITH THE SILVER PAPER. BLOOM (KITTY, DISCONCERTED, COATS HER TEETH WITH THE SILVER PAPER. BLOOM
APPROACHES ZOE.) APPROACHES ZOE.)
BLOOM: (GENTLY) Give me back that potato, will you? BLOOM: (GENTLY) Give me back that potato, will you?
ZOE: Forfeits, a fine thing and a superfine thing. ZOE: Forfeits, a fine thing and a superfine thing.
BLOOM: (WITH FEELING) It is nothing, but still, a relic of poor mamma. BLOOM: (WITH FEELING) It is nothing, but still, a relic of poor mamma.
ZOE: ZOE:
    Give a thing and take it back     Give a thing and take it back
    God'll ask you where is that     God'll ask you where is that
    You'll say you don't know     You'll say you don't know
    God'll send you down below.     God'll send you down below.
BLOOM: There is a memory attached to it. I should like to have it. BLOOM: There is a memory attached to it. I should like to have it.
STEPHEN: To have or not to have that is the question. STEPHEN: To have or not to have that is the question.
ZOE: Here. (SHE HAULS UP A REEF OF HER SLIP, REVEALING HER BARE THIGH, ZOE: Here. (SHE HAULS UP A REEF OF HER SLIP, REVEALING HER BARE THIGH,
AND UNROLLS THE POTATO FROM THE TOP OF HER STOCKING) Those that hides AND UNROLLS THE POTATO FROM THE TOP OF HER STOCKING) Those that hides
knows where to find. knows where to find.
BELLA: (FROWNS) Here. This isn't a musical peepshow. And don't you smash BELLA: (FROWNS) Here. This isn't a musical peepshow. And don't you smash
that piano. Who's paying here? that piano. Who's paying here?
(SHE GOES TO THE PIANOLA. STEPHEN FUMBLES IN HIS POCKET AND, TAKING OUT A (SHE GOES TO THE PIANOLA. STEPHEN FUMBLES IN HIS POCKET AND, TAKING OUT A
BANKNOTE BY ITS CORNER, HANDS IT TO HER.) BANKNOTE BY ITS CORNER, HANDS IT TO HER.)
STEPHEN: (WITH EXAGGERATED POLITENESS) This silken purse I made out of STEPHEN: (WITH EXAGGERATED POLITENESS) This silken purse I made out of
the sow's ear of the public. Madam, excuse me. If you allow me. (HE the sow's ear of the public. Madam, excuse me. If you allow me. (HE
INDICATES VAGUELY LYNCH AND BLOOM) We are all in the same sweepstake, INDICATES VAGUELY LYNCH AND BLOOM) We are all in the same sweepstake,
Kinch and Lynch. DANS CE BORDEL OU TENONS NOSTRE ETAT. Kinch and Lynch. DANS CE BORDEL OU TENONS NOSTRE ETAT.
LYNCH: (CALLS FROM THE HEARTH) Dedalus! Give her your blessing for me. LYNCH: (CALLS FROM THE HEARTH) Dedalus! Give her your blessing for me.
STEPHEN: (HANDS BELLA A COIN) Gold. She has it. STEPHEN: (HANDS BELLA A COIN) Gold. She has it.
BELLA: (LOOKS AT THE MONEY, THEN AT STEPHEN, THEN AT ZOE, FLORRY AND BELLA: (LOOKS AT THE MONEY, THEN AT STEPHEN, THEN AT ZOE, FLORRY AND
KITTY) Do you want three girls? It's ten shillings here. KITTY) Do you want three girls? It's ten shillings here.
STEPHEN: (DELIGHTEDLY) A hundred thousand apologies. (HE FUMBLES AGAIN STEPHEN: (DELIGHTEDLY) A hundred thousand apologies. (HE FUMBLES AGAIN
AND TAKES OUT AND HANDS HER TWO CROWNS) Permit, BREVI MANU, my sight is AND TAKES OUT AND HANDS HER TWO CROWNS) Permit, BREVI MANU, my sight is
somewhat troubled. somewhat troubled.
(BELLA GOES TO THE TABLE TO COUNT THE MONEY WHILE STEPHEN TALKS TO (BELLA GOES TO THE TABLE TO COUNT THE MONEY WHILE STEPHEN TALKS TO
HIMSELF IN MONOSYLLABLES. ZOE BENDS OVER THE TABLE. KITTY LEANS OVER HIMSELF IN MONOSYLLABLES. ZOE BENDS OVER THE TABLE. KITTY LEANS OVER
ZOE'S NECK. LYNCH GETS UP, RIGHTS HIS CAP AND, CLASPING KITTY'S WAIST, ZOE'S NECK. LYNCH GETS UP, RIGHTS HIS CAP AND, CLASPING KITTY'S WAIST,
ADDS HIS HEAD TO THE GROUP.) ADDS HIS HEAD TO THE GROUP.)
FLORRY: (STRIVES HEAVILY TO RISE) Ow! My foot's asleep. (SHE LIMPS OVER FLORRY: (STRIVES HEAVILY TO RISE) Ow! My foot's asleep. (SHE LIMPS OVER
TO THE TABLE. BLOOM APPROACHES.) TO THE TABLE. BLOOM APPROACHES.)
BELLA, ZOE, KITTY, LYNCH, BLOOM: (CHATTERING AND SQUABBLING) The BELLA, ZOE, KITTY, LYNCH, BLOOM: (CHATTERING AND SQUABBLING) The
gentleman ... ten shillings ... paying for the three ... allow me a gentleman ... ten shillings ... paying for the three ... allow me a
moment ... this gentleman pays separate ... who's touching it? ... ow! moment ... this gentleman pays separate ... who's touching it? ... ow!
... mind who you're pinching ... are you staying the night or a short ... mind who you're pinching ... are you staying the night or a short
time?... who did?... you're a liar, excuse me ... the gentleman paid down time?... who did?... you're a liar, excuse me ... the gentleman paid down
like a gentleman ... drink ... it's long after eleven. like a gentleman ... drink ... it's long after eleven.
STEPHEN: (AT THE PIANOLA, MAKING A GESTURE OF ABHORRENCE) No bottles! STEPHEN: (AT THE PIANOLA, MAKING A GESTURE OF ABHORRENCE) No bottles!
What, eleven? A riddle! What, eleven? A riddle!
ZOE: (LIFTING UP HER PETTIGOWN AND FOLDING A HALF SOVEREIGN INTO THE TOP ZOE: (LIFTING UP HER PETTIGOWN AND FOLDING A HALF SOVEREIGN INTO THE TOP
OF HER STOCKING) Hard earned on the flat of my back. OF HER STOCKING) Hard earned on the flat of my back.
LYNCH: (LIFTING KITTY FROM THE TABLE) Come! LYNCH: (LIFTING KITTY FROM THE TABLE) Come!
KITTY: Wait. (SHE CLUTCHES THE TWO CROWNS) KITTY: Wait. (SHE CLUTCHES THE TWO CROWNS)
FLORRY: And me? FLORRY: And me?
LYNCH: Hoopla! (HE LIFTS HER, CARRIES HER AND BUMPS HER DOWN ON THE LYNCH: Hoopla! (HE LIFTS HER, CARRIES HER AND BUMPS HER DOWN ON THE
SOFA.) SOFA.)
STEPHEN: STEPHEN:
    The fox crew, the cocks flew,     The fox crew, the cocks flew,
    The bells in heaven     The bells in heaven
    Were striking eleven.     Were striking eleven.
    'Tis time for her poor soul     'Tis time for her poor soul
    To get out of heaven.     To get out of heaven.
BLOOM: (QUIETLY LAYS A HALF SOVEREIGN ON THE TABLE BETWEEN BELLA AND BLOOM: (QUIETLY LAYS A HALF SOVEREIGN ON THE TABLE BETWEEN BELLA AND
FLORRY) So. Allow me. (HE TAKES UP THE POUNDNOTE) Three times ten. We're FLORRY) So. Allow me. (HE TAKES UP THE POUNDNOTE) Three times ten. We're
square. square.
BELLA: (ADMIRINGLY) You're such a slyboots, old cocky. I could kiss you. BELLA: (ADMIRINGLY) You're such a slyboots, old cocky. I could kiss you.
ZOE: (POINTS) Him? Deep as a drawwell. (LYNCH BENDS KITTY BACK OVER THE ZOE: (POINTS) Him? Deep as a drawwell. (LYNCH BENDS KITTY BACK OVER THE
SOFA AND KISSES HER. BLOOM GOES WITH THE POUNDNOTE TO STEPHEN.) SOFA AND KISSES HER. BLOOM GOES WITH THE POUNDNOTE TO STEPHEN.)
BLOOM: This is yours. BLOOM: This is yours.
STEPHEN: How is that? LES DISTRAIT or absentminded beggar. (HE FUMBLES STEPHEN: How is that? LES DISTRAIT or absentminded beggar. (HE FUMBLES
AGAIN IN HIS POCKET AND DRAWS OUT A HANDFUL OF COINS. AN OBJECT FILLS.) AGAIN IN HIS POCKET AND DRAWS OUT A HANDFUL OF COINS. AN OBJECT FILLS.)
That fell. That fell.
BLOOM: (STOOPING, PICKS UP AND HANDS A BOX OF MATCHES) This. BLOOM: (STOOPING, PICKS UP AND HANDS A BOX OF MATCHES) This.
STEPHEN: Lucifer. Thanks. STEPHEN: Lucifer. Thanks.
BLOOM: (QUIETLY) You had better hand over that cash to me to take care BLOOM: (QUIETLY) You had better hand over that cash to me to take care
of. Why pay more? of. Why pay more?
STEPHEN: (HANDS HIM ALL HIS COINS) Be just before you are generous. STEPHEN: (HANDS HIM ALL HIS COINS) Be just before you are generous.
BLOOM: I will but is it wise? (HE COUNTS) One, seven, eleven, and five. BLOOM: I will but is it wise? (HE COUNTS) One, seven, eleven, and five.
Six. Eleven. I don't answer for what you may have lost. Six. Eleven. I don't answer for what you may have lost.
STEPHEN: Why striking eleven? Proparoxyton. Moment before the next STEPHEN: Why striking eleven? Proparoxyton. Moment before the next
Lessing says. Thirsty fox. (HE LAUGHS LOUDLY) Burying his grandmother. Lessing says. Thirsty fox. (HE LAUGHS LOUDLY) Burying his grandmother.
Probably he killed her. Probably he killed her.
BLOOM: That is one pound six and eleven. One pound seven, say. BLOOM: That is one pound six and eleven. One pound seven, say.
STEPHEN: Doesn't matter a rambling damn. STEPHEN: Doesn't matter a rambling damn.
BLOOM: No, but ... BLOOM: No, but ...
STEPHEN: (COMES TO THE TABLE) Cigarette, please. (LYNCH TOSSES A STEPHEN: (COMES TO THE TABLE) Cigarette, please. (LYNCH TOSSES A
CIGARETTE FROM THE SOFA TO THE TABLE) And so Georgina Johnson is dead and CIGARETTE FROM THE SOFA TO THE TABLE) And so Georgina Johnson is dead and
married. (A CIGARETTE APPEARS ON THE TABLE. STEPHEN LOOKS AT IT) Wonder. married. (A CIGARETTE APPEARS ON THE TABLE. STEPHEN LOOKS AT IT) Wonder.
Parlour magic. Married. Hm. (HE STRIKES A MATCH AND PROCEEDS TO LIGHT THE Parlour magic. Married. Hm. (HE STRIKES A MATCH AND PROCEEDS TO LIGHT THE
CIGARETTE WITH ENIGMATIC MELANCHOLY) CIGARETTE WITH ENIGMATIC MELANCHOLY)
LYNCH: (WATCHING HIM) You would have a better chance of lighting it if LYNCH: (WATCHING HIM) You would have a better chance of lighting it if
you held the match nearer. you held the match nearer.
STEPHEN: (BRINGS THE MATCH NEAR HIS EYE) Lynx eye. Must get glasses. STEPHEN: (BRINGS THE MATCH NEAR HIS EYE) Lynx eye. Must get glasses.
Broke them yesterday. Sixteen years ago. Distance. The eye sees all flat. Broke them yesterday. Sixteen years ago. Distance. The eye sees all flat.
(HE DRAWS THE MATCH AWAY. IT GOES OUT.) Brain thinks. Near: far. (HE DRAWS THE MATCH AWAY. IT GOES OUT.) Brain thinks. Near: far.
Ineluctable modality of the visible. (HE FROWNS MYSTERIOUSLY) Hm. Sphinx. Ineluctable modality of the visible. (HE FROWNS MYSTERIOUSLY) Hm. Sphinx.
The beast that has twobacks at midnight. Married. The beast that has twobacks at midnight. Married.
ZOE: It was a commercial traveller married her and took her away with ZOE: It was a commercial traveller married her and took her away with
him. him.
FLORRY: (NODS) Mr Lambe from London. FLORRY: (NODS) Mr Lambe from London.
STEPHEN: Lamb of London, who takest away the sins of our world. STEPHEN: Lamb of London, who takest away the sins of our world.
LYNCH: (EMBRACING KITTY ON THE SOFA, CHANTS DEEPLY) DONA NOBIS PACEM. LYNCH: (EMBRACING KITTY ON THE SOFA, CHANTS DEEPLY) DONA NOBIS PACEM.
(THE CIGARETTE SLIPS FROM STEPHEN 'S FINGERS. BLOOM PICKS IT UP AND (THE CIGARETTE SLIPS FROM STEPHEN 'S FINGERS. BLOOM PICKS IT UP AND
THROWS IT IN THE GRATE.) THROWS IT IN THE GRATE.)
BLOOM: Don't smoke. You ought to eat. Cursed dog I met. (TO ZOE) You have BLOOM: Don't smoke. You ought to eat. Cursed dog I met. (TO ZOE) You have
nothing? nothing?
ZOE: Is he hungry? ZOE: Is he hungry?
STEPHEN: (EXTENDS HIS HAND TO HER SMILING AND CHANTS TO THE AIR OF THE STEPHEN: (EXTENDS HIS HAND TO HER SMILING AND CHANTS TO THE AIR OF THE
BLOODOATH IN THE Dusk of the Gods) BLOODOATH IN THE Dusk of the Gods)
    Hangende Hunger,     Hangende Hunger,
    Fragende Frau,     Fragende Frau,
    Macht uns alle kaputt.     Macht uns alle kaputt.
ZOE: (TRAGICALLY) Hamlet, I am thy father's gimlet! (SHE TAKES HIS HAND) ZOE: (TRAGICALLY) Hamlet, I am thy father's gimlet! (SHE TAKES HIS HAND)
Blue eyes beauty I'll read your hand. (SHE POINTS TO HIS FOREHEAD) No Blue eyes beauty I'll read your hand. (SHE POINTS TO HIS FOREHEAD) No
wit, no wrinkles. (SHE COUNTS) Two, three, Mars, that's courage. (STEPHEN wit, no wrinkles. (SHE COUNTS) Two, three, Mars, that's courage. (STEPHEN
SHAKES HIS HEAD) No kid. SHAKES HIS HEAD) No kid.
LYNCH: Sheet lightning courage. The youth who could not shiver and shake. LYNCH: Sheet lightning courage. The youth who could not shiver and shake.
(TO ZOE) Who taught you palmistry? (TO ZOE) Who taught you palmistry?
ZOE: (TURNS) Ask my ballocks that I haven't got. (TO STEPHEN) I see it in ZOE: (TURNS) Ask my ballocks that I haven't got. (TO STEPHEN) I see it in
your face. The eye, like that. (SHE FROWNS WITH LOWERED HEAD) your face. The eye, like that. (SHE FROWNS WITH LOWERED HEAD)
LYNCH: (LAUGHING, SLAPS KITTY BEHIND TWICE) Like that. Pandybat. LYNCH: (LAUGHING, SLAPS KITTY BEHIND TWICE) Like that. Pandybat.
(TWICE LOUDLY A PANDYBAT CRACKS, THE COFFIN OF THE PIANOLA FLIES OPEN, (TWICE LOUDLY A PANDYBAT CRACKS, THE COFFIN OF THE PIANOLA FLIES OPEN,
THE BALD LITTLE ROUND JACK-IN-THE-BOX HEAD OF FATHER DOLAN SPRINGS UP.) THE BALD LITTLE ROUND JACK-IN-THE-BOX HEAD OF FATHER DOLAN SPRINGS UP.)
FATHER DOLAN: Any boy want flogging? Broke his glasses? Lazy idle little FATHER DOLAN: Any boy want flogging? Broke his glasses? Lazy idle little
schemer. See it in your eye. schemer. See it in your eye.
(MILD, BENIGN, RECTORIAL, REPROVING, THE HEAD OF DON JOHN CONMEE RISES (MILD, BENIGN, RECTORIAL, REPROVING, THE HEAD OF DON JOHN CONMEE RISES
FROM THE PIANOLA COFFIN.) FROM THE PIANOLA COFFIN.)
DON JOHN CONMEE: Now, Father Dolan! Now. I'm sure that Stephen is a very DON JOHN CONMEE: Now, Father Dolan! Now. I'm sure that Stephen is a very
good little boy! good little boy!
ZOE: (EXAMINING STEPHEN'S PALM) Woman's hand. ZOE: (EXAMINING STEPHEN'S PALM) Woman's hand.
STEPHEN: (MURMURS) Continue. Lie. Hold me. Caress. I never could read His STEPHEN: (MURMURS) Continue. Lie. Hold me. Caress. I never could read His
handwriting except His criminal thumbprint on the haddock. handwriting except His criminal thumbprint on the haddock.
ZOE: What day were you born? ZOE: What day were you born?
STEPHEN: Thursday. Today. STEPHEN: Thursday. Today.
ZOE: Thursday's child has far to go. (SHE TRACES LINES ON HIS HAND) Line ZOE: Thursday's child has far to go. (SHE TRACES LINES ON HIS HAND) Line
of fate. Influential friends. of fate. Influential friends.
FLORRY: (POINTING) Imagination. FLORRY: (POINTING) Imagination.
ZOE: Mount of the moon. You'll meet with a ... (SHE PEERS AT HIS HANDS ZOE: Mount of the moon. You'll meet with a ... (SHE PEERS AT HIS HANDS
ABRUPTLY) I won't tell you what's not good for you. Or do you want to ABRUPTLY) I won't tell you what's not good for you. Or do you want to
know? know?
BLOOM: (DETACHES HER FINGERS AND OFFERS HIS PALM) More harm than good. BLOOM: (DETACHES HER FINGERS AND OFFERS HIS PALM) More harm than good.
Here. Read mine. Here. Read mine.
BELLA: Show. (SHE TURNS UP BLOOM'S HAND) I thought so. Knobby knuckles BELLA: Show. (SHE TURNS UP BLOOM'S HAND) I thought so. Knobby knuckles
for the women. for the women.
ZOE: (PEERING AT BLOOM'S PALM) Gridiron. Travels beyond the sea and marry ZOE: (PEERING AT BLOOM'S PALM) Gridiron. Travels beyond the sea and marry
money. money.
BLOOM: Wrong. BLOOM: Wrong.
ZOE: (QUICKLY) O, I see. Short little finger. Henpecked husband. That ZOE: (QUICKLY) O, I see. Short little finger. Henpecked husband. That
wrong? wrong?
(BLACK LIZ, A HUGE ROOSTER HATCHING IN A CHALKED CIRCLE, RISES, STRETCHES (BLACK LIZ, A HUGE ROOSTER HATCHING IN A CHALKED CIRCLE, RISES, STRETCHES
HER WINGS AND CLUCKS.) HER WINGS AND CLUCKS.)
BLACK LIZ: Gara. Klook. Klook. Klook. BLACK LIZ: Gara. Klook. Klook. Klook.
(SHE SIDLES FROM HER NEWLAID EGG AND WADDLES OFF) (SHE SIDLES FROM HER NEWLAID EGG AND WADDLES OFF)
BLOOM: (POINTS TO HIS HAND) That weal there is an accident. Fell and cut BLOOM: (POINTS TO HIS HAND) That weal there is an accident. Fell and cut
it twentytwo years ago. I was sixteen. it twentytwo years ago. I was sixteen.
ZOE: I see, says the blind man. Tell us news. ZOE: I see, says the blind man. Tell us news.
STEPHEN: See? Moves to one great goal. I am twentytwo. Sixteen years ago STEPHEN: See? Moves to one great goal. I am twentytwo. Sixteen years ago
he was twentytwo too. Sixteen years ago I twentytwo tumbled. Twentytwo he was twentytwo too. Sixteen years ago I twentytwo tumbled. Twentytwo
years ago he sixteen fell off his hobbyhorse. (HE WINCES) Hurt my hand years ago he sixteen fell off his hobbyhorse. (HE WINCES) Hurt my hand
somewhere. Must see a dentist. Money? somewhere. Must see a dentist. Money?
(ZOE WHISPERS TO FLORRY. THEY GIGGLE. BLOOM RELEASES HIS HAND AND WRITES (ZOE WHISPERS TO FLORRY. THEY GIGGLE. BLOOM RELEASES HIS HAND AND WRITES
IDLY ON THE TABLE IN BACKHAND, PENCILLING SLOW CURVES.) IDLY ON THE TABLE IN BACKHAND, PENCILLING SLOW CURVES.)
FLORRY: What? FLORRY: What?
(A HACKNEYCAR, NUMBER THREE HUNDRED AND TWENTYFOUR, WITH A (A HACKNEYCAR, NUMBER THREE HUNDRED AND TWENTYFOUR, WITH A
GALLANTBUTTOCKED MARE, DRIVEN BY JAMES BARTON, HARMONY AVENUE, GALLANTBUTTOCKED MARE, DRIVEN BY JAMES BARTON, HARMONY AVENUE,
DONNYBROOK, TROTS PAST. BLAZES BOYLAN AND LENEHAN SPRAWL SWAYING ON THE DONNYBROOK, TROTS PAST. BLAZES BOYLAN AND LENEHAN SPRAWL SWAYING ON THE
SIDESEATS. THE ORMOND BOOTS CROUCHES BEHIND ON THE AXLE. SADLY OVER THE SIDESEATS. THE ORMOND BOOTS CROUCHES BEHIND ON THE AXLE. SADLY OVER THE
CROSSBLIND LYDIA DOUCE AND MINA KENNEDY GAZE.) CROSSBLIND LYDIA DOUCE AND MINA KENNEDY GAZE.)
THE BOOTS: (JOGGING, MOCKS THEM WITH THUMB AND WRIGGLING WORMFINGERS) Haw THE BOOTS: (JOGGING, MOCKS THEM WITH THUMB AND WRIGGLING WORMFINGERS) Haw
haw have you the horn? haw have you the horn?
(BRONZE BY GOLD THEY WHISPER.) (BRONZE BY GOLD THEY WHISPER.)
ZOE: (TO FLORRY) Whisper. ZOE: (TO FLORRY) Whisper.
(THEY WHISPER AGAIN) (THEY WHISPER AGAIN)
(OVER THE WELL OF THE CAR BLAZES BOYLAN LEANS, HIS BOATER STRAW SET (OVER THE WELL OF THE CAR BLAZES BOYLAN LEANS, HIS BOATER STRAW SET
SIDEWAYS, A RED FLOWER IN HIS MOUTH. LENEHAN IN YACHTSMAN'S CAP AND WHITE SIDEWAYS, A RED FLOWER IN HIS MOUTH. LENEHAN IN YACHTSMAN'S CAP AND WHITE
SHOES OFFICIOUSLY DETACHES A LONG HAIR FROM BLAZES BOYLAN'S COAT SHOES OFFICIOUSLY DETACHES A LONG HAIR FROM BLAZES BOYLAN'S COAT
SHOULDER.) SHOULDER.)
LENEHAN: Ho! What do I here behold? Were you brushing the cobwebs off a LENEHAN: Ho! What do I here behold? Were you brushing the cobwebs off a
few quims? few quims?
BOYLAN: (SEATED, SMILES) Plucking a turkey. BOYLAN: (SEATED, SMILES) Plucking a turkey.
LENEHAN: A good night's work. LENEHAN: A good night's work.
BOYLAN: (HOLDING UP FOUR THICK BLUNTUNGULATED FINGERS, WINKS) Blazes BOYLAN: (HOLDING UP FOUR THICK BLUNTUNGULATED FINGERS, WINKS) Blazes
Kate! Up to sample or your money back. (HE HOLDS OUT A FOREFINGER) Smell Kate! Up to sample or your money back. (HE HOLDS OUT A FOREFINGER) Smell
that. that.
LENEHAN: (SMELLS GLEEFULLY) Ah! Lobster and mayonnaise. Ah! LENEHAN: (SMELLS GLEEFULLY) Ah! Lobster and mayonnaise. Ah!
ZOE AND FLORRY: (LAUGH TOGETHER) Ha ha ha ha. ZOE AND FLORRY: (LAUGH TOGETHER) Ha ha ha ha.
BOYLAN: (JUMPS SURELY FROM THE CAR AND CALLS LOUDLY FOR ALL TO HEAR) BOYLAN: (JUMPS SURELY FROM THE CAR AND CALLS LOUDLY FOR ALL TO HEAR)
Hello, Bloom! Mrs Bloom dressed yet? Hello, Bloom! Mrs Bloom dressed yet?
BLOOM: (IN FLUNKEY'S PRUNE PLUSH COAT AND KNEEBREECHES, BUFF STOCKINGS BLOOM: (IN FLUNKEY'S PRUNE PLUSH COAT AND KNEEBREECHES, BUFF STOCKINGS
AND POWDERED WIG) I'm afraid not, sir. The last articles ... AND POWDERED WIG) I'm afraid not, sir. The last articles ...
BOYLAN: (TOSSES HIM SIXPENCE) Here, to buy yourself a gin and splash. (HE BOYLAN: (TOSSES HIM SIXPENCE) Here, to buy yourself a gin and splash. (HE
HANGS HIS HAT SMARTLY ON A PEG OF BLOOM'S ANTLERED HEAD) Show me in. I HANGS HIS HAT SMARTLY ON A PEG OF BLOOM'S ANTLERED HEAD) Show me in. I
have a little private business with your wife, you understand? have a little private business with your wife, you understand?
BLOOM: Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Madam Tweedy is in her bath, sir. BLOOM: Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Madam Tweedy is in her bath, sir.
MARION: He ought to feel himself highly honoured. (SHE PLOPS SPLASHING MARION: He ought to feel himself highly honoured. (SHE PLOPS SPLASHING
OUT OF THE WATER) Raoul darling, come and dry me. I'm in my pelt. Only my OUT OF THE WATER) Raoul darling, come and dry me. I'm in my pelt. Only my
new hat and a carriage sponge. new hat and a carriage sponge.
BOYLAN: (A MERRY TWINKLE IN HIS EYE) Topping! BOYLAN: (A MERRY TWINKLE IN HIS EYE) Topping!
BELLA: What? What is it? BELLA: What? What is it?
(ZOE WHISPERS TO HER.) (ZOE WHISPERS TO HER.)
MARION: Let him look, the pishogue! Pimp! And scourge himself! I'll write MARION: Let him look, the pishogue! Pimp! And scourge himself! I'll write
to a powerful prostitute or Bartholomona, the bearded woman, to raise to a powerful prostitute or Bartholomona, the bearded woman, to raise
weals out on him an inch thick and make him bring me back a signed and weals out on him an inch thick and make him bring me back a signed and
stamped receipt. stamped receipt.
BOYLAN: (clasps himself) Here, I can't hold this little lot much longer. BOYLAN: (clasps himself) Here, I can't hold this little lot much longer.
(he strides off on stiff cavalry legs) (he strides off on stiff cavalry legs)
BELLA: (LAUGHING) Ho ho ho ho. BELLA: (LAUGHING) Ho ho ho ho.
BOYLAN: (TO BLOOM, OVER HIS SHOULDER) You can apply your eye to the BOYLAN: (TO BLOOM, OVER HIS SHOULDER) You can apply your eye to the
keyhole and play with yourself while I just go through her a few times. keyhole and play with yourself while I just go through her a few times.
BLOOM: Thank you, sir. I will, sir. May I bring two men chums to witness BLOOM: Thank you, sir. I will, sir. May I bring two men chums to witness
the deed and take a snapshot? (HE HOLDS OUT AN OINTMENT JAR) Vaseline, the deed and take a snapshot? (HE HOLDS OUT AN OINTMENT JAR) Vaseline,
sir? Orangeflower ...? Lukewarm water ...? sir? Orangeflower ...? Lukewarm water ...?
KITTY: (FROM THE SOFA) Tell us, Florry. Tell us. What. KITTY: (FROM THE SOFA) Tell us, Florry. Tell us. What.
(FLORRY WHISPERS TO HER. WHISPERING LOVEWORDS MURMUR, LIPLAPPING LOUDLY, (FLORRY WHISPERS TO HER. WHISPERING LOVEWORDS MURMUR, LIPLAPPING LOUDLY,
POPPYSMIC PLOPSLOP.) POPPYSMIC PLOPSLOP.)
MINA KENNEDY: (HER EYES UPTURNED) O, it must be like the scent of MINA KENNEDY: (HER EYES UPTURNED) O, it must be like the scent of
geraniums and lovely peaches! O, he simply idolises every bit of her! geraniums and lovely peaches! O, he simply idolises every bit of her!
Stuck together! Covered with kisses! Stuck together! Covered with kisses!
LYDIA DOUCE: (HER MOUTH OPENING) Yumyum. O, he's carrying her round the LYDIA DOUCE: (HER MOUTH OPENING) Yumyum. O, he's carrying her round the
room doing it! Ride a cockhorse. You could hear them in Paris and New room doing it! Ride a cockhorse. You could hear them in Paris and New
York. Like mouthfuls of strawberries and cream. York. Like mouthfuls of strawberries and cream.
KITTY: (LAUGHING) Hee hee hee. KITTY: (LAUGHING) Hee hee hee.
BOYLAN'S VOICE: (SWEETLY, HOARSELY, IN THE PIT OF HIS STOMACH) Ah! BOYLAN'S VOICE: (SWEETLY, HOARSELY, IN THE PIT OF HIS STOMACH) Ah!
Gooblazqruk brukarchkrasht! Gooblazqruk brukarchkrasht!
MARION'S VOICE: (HOARSELY, SWEETLY, RISING TO HER THROAT) O! MARION'S VOICE: (HOARSELY, SWEETLY, RISING TO HER THROAT) O!
Weeshwashtkissinapooisthnapoohuck? Weeshwashtkissinapooisthnapoohuck?
BLOOM: (HIS EYES WILDLY DILATED, CLASPS HIMSELF) Show! Hide! Show! Plough BLOOM: (HIS EYES WILDLY DILATED, CLASPS HIMSELF) Show! Hide! Show! Plough
her! More! Shoot! her! More! Shoot!
BELLA, ZOE, FLORRY, KITTY: Ho ho! Ha ha! Hee hee! BELLA, ZOE, FLORRY, KITTY: Ho ho! Ha ha! Hee hee!
LYNCH: (POINTS) The mirror up to nature. (HE LAUGHS) Hu hu hu hu hu! LYNCH: (POINTS) The mirror up to nature. (HE LAUGHS) Hu hu hu hu hu!
(STEPHEN AND BLOOM GAZE IN THE MIRROR. THE FACE OF WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE, (STEPHEN AND BLOOM GAZE IN THE MIRROR. THE FACE OF WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE,
BEARDLESS, APPEARS THERE, RIGID IN FACIAL PARALYSIS, CROWNED BY THE BEARDLESS, APPEARS THERE, RIGID IN FACIAL PARALYSIS, CROWNED BY THE
REFLECTION OF THE REINDEER ANTLERED HATRACK IN THE HALL.) REFLECTION OF THE REINDEER ANTLERED HATRACK IN THE HALL.)
SHAKESPEARE: (IN DIGNIFIED VENTRILOQUY) 'Tis the loud laugh bespeaks the SHAKESPEARE: (IN DIGNIFIED VENTRILOQUY) 'Tis the loud laugh bespeaks the
vacant mind. (TO BLOOM) Thou thoughtest as how thou wastest invisible. vacant mind. (TO BLOOM) Thou thoughtest as how thou wastest invisible.
Gaze. (HE CROWS WITH A BLACK CAPON'S LAUGH) Iagogo! How my Oldfellow Gaze. (HE CROWS WITH A BLACK CAPON'S LAUGH) Iagogo! How my Oldfellow
chokit his Thursdaymornun. Iagogogo! chokit his Thursdaymornun. Iagogogo!
BLOOM: (SMILES YELLOWLY AT THE THREE WHORES) When will I hear the joke? BLOOM: (SMILES YELLOWLY AT THE THREE WHORES) When will I hear the joke?
ZOE: Before you're twice married and once a widower. ZOE: Before you're twice married and once a widower.
BLOOM: Lapses are condoned. Even the great Napoleon when measurements BLOOM: Lapses are condoned. Even the great Napoleon when measurements
were taken next the skin after his death ... were taken next the skin after his death ...
(MRS DIGNAM, WIDOW WOMAN, HER SNUBNOSE AND CHEEKS FLUSHED WITH DEATHTALK, (MRS DIGNAM, WIDOW WOMAN, HER SNUBNOSE AND CHEEKS FLUSHED WITH DEATHTALK,
TEARS AND TUNNEY'S TAWNY SHERRY, HURRIES BY IN HER WEEDS, HER BONNET TEARS AND TUNNEY'S TAWNY SHERRY, HURRIES BY IN HER WEEDS, HER BONNET
AWRY, ROUGING AND POWDERING HER CHEEKS, LIPS AND NOSE, A PEN CHIVVYING AWRY, ROUGING AND POWDERING HER CHEEKS, LIPS AND NOSE, A PEN CHIVVYING
HER BROOD OF CYGNETS. BENEATH HER SKIRT APPEAR HER LATE HUSBAND'S HER BROOD OF CYGNETS. BENEATH HER SKIRT APPEAR HER LATE HUSBAND'S
EVERYDAY TROUSERS AND TURNEDUP BOOTS, LARGE EIGHTS. SHE HOLDS A SCOTTISH EVERYDAY TROUSERS AND TURNEDUP BOOTS, LARGE EIGHTS. SHE HOLDS A SCOTTISH
wind upon the headland, wind around her. wind upon the headland, wind around her.
Cowley sang: Cowley sang:
--M'APPARI TUTT'AMOR: --M'APPARI TUTT'AMOR:
IL MIO SGUARDO L'INCONTR ... IL MIO SGUARDO L'INCONTR ...
She waved, unhearing Cowley, her veil, to one departing, dear one, to She waved, unhearing Cowley, her veil, to one departing, dear one, to
wind, love, speeding sail, return. wind, love, speeding sail, return.
--Go on, Simon. --Go on, Simon.
--Ah, sure, my dancing days are done, Ben ... Well ... --Ah, sure, my dancing days are done, Ben ... Well ...
Mr Dedalus laid his pipe to rest beside the tuningfork and, sitting, Mr Dedalus laid his pipe to rest beside the tuningfork and, sitting,
touched the obedient keys. touched the obedient keys.
--No, Simon, Father Cowley turned. Play it in the original. One flat. --No, Simon, Father Cowley turned. Play it in the original. One flat.
The keys, obedient, rose higher, told, faltered, confessed, confused. The keys, obedient, rose higher, told, faltered, confessed, confused.
Up stage strode Father Cowley. Up stage strode Father Cowley.
--Here, Simon, I'll accompany you, he said. Get up. --Here, Simon, I'll accompany you, he said. Get up.
By Graham Lemon's pineapple rock, by Elvery's elephant jingly By Graham Lemon's pineapple rock, by Elvery's elephant jingly
jogged. Steak, kidney, liver, mashed, at meat fit for princes sat princes jogged. Steak, kidney, liver, mashed, at meat fit for princes sat princes
Bloom and Goulding. Princes at meat they raised and drank, Power and Bloom and Goulding. Princes at meat they raised and drank, Power and
cider. cider.
Most beautiful tenor air ever written, Richie said: SONNAMBULA. He Most beautiful tenor air ever written, Richie said: SONNAMBULA. He
heard Joe Maas sing that one night. Ah, what M'Guckin! Yes. In his way. heard Joe Maas sing that one night. Ah, what M'Guckin! Yes. In his way.
Choirboy style. Maas was the boy. Massboy. A lyrical tenor if you like. Choirboy style. Maas was the boy. Massboy. A lyrical tenor if you like.
Never forget it. Never. Never forget it. Never.
Tenderly Bloom over liverless bacon saw the tightened features strain. Tenderly Bloom over liverless bacon saw the tightened features strain.
Backache he. Bright's bright eye. Next item on the programme. Paying the Backache he. Bright's bright eye. Next item on the programme. Paying the
piper. Pills, pounded bread, worth a guinea a box. Stave it off awhile. piper. Pills, pounded bread, worth a guinea a box. Stave it off awhile.
Sings too: DOWN AMONG THE DEAD MEN. Appropriate. Kidney pie. Sweets to Sings too: DOWN AMONG THE DEAD MEN. Appropriate. Kidney pie. Sweets to
the. Not making much hand of it. Best value in. Characteristic of him. the. Not making much hand of it. Best value in. Characteristic of him.
Power. Particular about his drink. Flaw in the glass, fresh Vartry water. Power. Particular about his drink. Flaw in the glass, fresh Vartry water.
Fecking matches from counters to save. Then squander a sovereign in dribs Fecking matches from counters to save. Then squander a sovereign in dribs
and drabs. And when he's wanted not a farthing. Screwed refusing to pay and drabs. And when he's wanted not a farthing. Screwed refusing to pay
his fare. Curious types. his fare. Curious types.
Never would Richie forget that night. As long as he lived: never. In Never would Richie forget that night. As long as he lived: never. In
the gods of the old Royal with little Peake. And when the first note. the gods of the old Royal with little Peake. And when the first note.
Speech paused on Richie's lips. Speech paused on Richie's lips.
Coming out with a whopper now. Rhapsodies about damn all. Coming out with a whopper now. Rhapsodies about damn all.
Believes his own lies. Does really. Wonderful liar. But want a good Believes his own lies. Does really. Wonderful liar. But want a good
memory. memory.
--Which air is that? asked Leopold Bloom. --Which air is that? asked Leopold Bloom.
--ALL IS LOST NOW. --ALL IS LOST NOW.
Richie cocked his lips apout. A low incipient note sweet banshee murmured: Richie cocked his lips apout. A low incipient note sweet banshee murmured:
all. A thrush. A throstle. His breath, birdsweet, good teeth he's all. A thrush. A throstle. His breath, birdsweet, good teeth he's
proud of, fluted with plaintive woe. Is lost. Rich sound. Two notes in one proud of, fluted with plaintive woe. Is lost. Rich sound. Two notes in one
there. Blackbird I heard in the hawthorn valley. Taking my motives he there. Blackbird I heard in the hawthorn valley. Taking my motives he
twined and turned them. All most too new call is lost in all. Echo. How twined and turned them. All most too new call is lost in all. Echo. How
sweet the answer. How is that done? All lost now. Mournful he whistled. sweet the answer. How is that done? All lost now. Mournful he whistled.
Fall, surrender, lost. Fall, surrender, lost.
Bloom bent leopold ear, turning a fringe of doyley down under the Bloom bent leopold ear, turning a fringe of doyley down under the
vase. Order. Yes, I remember. Lovely air. In sleep she went to him. vase. Order. Yes, I remember. Lovely air. In sleep she went to him.
Innocence in the moon. Brave. Don't know their danger. Still hold her Innocence in the moon. Brave. Don't know their danger. Still hold her
back. Call name. Touch water. Jingle jaunty. Too late. She longed to go. back. Call name. Touch water. Jingle jaunty. Too late. She longed to go.
That's why. Woman. As easy stop the sea. Yes: all is lost. That's why. Woman. As easy stop the sea. Yes: all is lost.
--A beautiful air, said Bloom lost Leopold. I know it well. --A beautiful air, said Bloom lost Leopold. I know it well.
Never in all his life had Richie Goulding. Never in all his life had Richie Goulding.
He knows it well too. Or he feels. Still harping on his daughter. Wise He knows it well too. Or he feels. Still harping on his daughter. Wise
child that knows her father, Dedalus said. Me? child that knows her father, Dedalus said. Me?
Bloom askance over liverless saw. Face of the all is lost. Rollicking Bloom askance over liverless saw. Face of the all is lost. Rollicking
Richie once. Jokes old stale now. Wagging his ear. Napkinring in his eye. Richie once. Jokes old stale now. Wagging his ear. Napkinring in his eye.
Now begging letters he sends his son with. Crosseyed Walter sir I did sir. Now begging letters he sends his son with. Crosseyed Walter sir I did sir.
Wouldn't trouble only I was expecting some money. Apologise. Wouldn't trouble only I was expecting some money. Apologise.
Piano again. Sounds better than last time I heard. Tuned probably. Piano again. Sounds better than last time I heard. Tuned probably.
Stopped again. Stopped again.
Dollard and Cowley still urged the lingering singer out with it. Dollard and Cowley still urged the lingering singer out with it.
--With it, Simon. --With it, Simon.
--It, Simon. --It, Simon.
--Ladies and gentlemen, I am most deeply obliged by your kind --Ladies and gentlemen, I am most deeply obliged by your kind
solicitations. solicitations.
--It, Simon. --It, Simon.
--I have no money but if you will lend me your attention I shall endeavour --I have no money but if you will lend me your attention I shall endeavour
to sing to you of a heart bowed down. to sing to you of a heart bowed down.
By the sandwichbell in screening shadow Lydia, her bronze and rose, By the sandwichbell in screening shadow Lydia, her bronze and rose,
a lady's grace, gave and withheld: as in cool glaucous EAU DE NIL Mina a lady's grace, gave and withheld: as in cool glaucous EAU DE NIL Mina
to tankards two her pinnacles of gold. to tankards two her pinnacles of gold.
The harping chords of prelude closed. A chord, longdrawn, expectant, The harping chords of prelude closed. A chord, longdrawn, expectant,
drew a voice away. drew a voice away.
--WHEN FIRST I SAW THAT FORM ENDEARING ... --WHEN FIRST I SAW THAT FORM ENDEARING ...
Richie turned. Richie turned.
--Si Dedalus' voice, he said. --Si Dedalus' voice, he said.
Braintipped, cheek touched with flame, they listened feeling that flow Braintipped, cheek touched with flame, they listened feeling that flow
endearing flow over skin limbs human heart soul spine. Bloom signed to endearing flow over skin limbs human heart soul spine. Bloom signed to
Pat, bald Pat is a waiter hard of hearing, to set ajar the door of the Pat, bald Pat is a waiter hard of hearing, to set ajar the door of the
bar. The door of the bar. So. That will do. Pat, waiter, waited, waiting bar. The door of the bar. So. That will do. Pat, waiter, waited, waiting
to hear, for he was hard of hear by the door. to hear, for he was hard of hear by the door.
--SORROW FROM ME SEEMED TO DEPART. --SORROW FROM ME SEEMED TO DEPART.
Through the hush of air a voice sang to them, low, not rain, not leaves Through the hush of air a voice sang to them, low, not rain, not leaves
in murmur, like no voice of strings or reeds or whatdoyoucallthem in murmur, like no voice of strings or reeds or whatdoyoucallthem
dulcimers touching their still ears with words, still hearts of their each dulcimers touching their still ears with words, still hearts of their each
his remembered lives. Good, good to hear: sorrow from them each seemed to his remembered lives. Good, good to hear: sorrow from them each seemed to
from both depart when first they heard. When first they saw, lost Richie from both depart when first they heard. When first they saw, lost Richie
Poldy, mercy of beauty, heard from a person wouldn't expect it in the Poldy, mercy of beauty, heard from a person wouldn't expect it in the
least, her first merciful lovesoft oftloved word. least, her first merciful lovesoft oftloved word.
Love that is singing: love's old sweet song. Bloom unwound slowly Love that is singing: love's old sweet song. Bloom unwound slowly
the elastic band of his packet. Love's old sweet SONNEZ LA gold. Bloom the elastic band of his packet. Love's old sweet SONNEZ LA gold. Bloom
wound a skein round four forkfingers, stretched it, relaxed, and wound it wound a skein round four forkfingers, stretched it, relaxed, and wound it
round his troubled double, fourfold, in octave, gyved them fast. round his troubled double, fourfold, in octave, gyved them fast.
--FULL OF HOPE AND ALL DELIGHTED ... --FULL OF HOPE AND ALL DELIGHTED ...
Tenors get women by the score. Increase their flow. Throw flower at Tenors get women by the score. Increase their flow. Throw flower at
his feet. When will we meet? My head it simply. Jingle all delighted. He his feet. When will we meet? My head it simply. Jingle all delighted. He
can't sing for tall hats. Your head it simply swurls. Perfumed for him. can't sing for tall hats. Your head it simply swurls. Perfumed for him.
What perfume does your wife? I want to know. Jing. Stop. Knock. Last look What perfume does your wife? I want to know. Jing. Stop. Knock. Last look
at mirror always before she answers the door. The hall. There? How do you? at mirror always before she answers the door. The hall. There? How do you?
I do well. There? What? Or? Phial of cachous, kissing comfits, in her I do well. There? What? Or? Phial of cachous, kissing comfits, in her
satchel. Yes? Hands felt for the opulent. satchel. Yes? Hands felt for the opulent.
Alas the voice rose, sighing, changed: loud, full, shining, proud. Alas the voice rose, sighing, changed: loud, full, shining, proud.
--BUT ALAS, 'TWAS IDLE DREAMING ... --BUT ALAS, 'TWAS IDLE DREAMING ...
Glorious tone he has still. Cork air softer also their brogue. Silly man! Glorious tone he has still. Cork air softer also their brogue. Silly man!
Could have made oceans of money. Singing wrong words. Wore out his Could have made oceans of money. Singing wrong words. Wore out his
wife: now sings. But hard to tell. Only the two themselves. If he doesn't wife: now sings. But hard to tell. Only the two themselves. If he doesn't
break down. Keep a trot for the avenue. His hands and feet sing too. break down. Keep a trot for the avenue. His hands and feet sing too.
Drink. Nerves overstrung. Must be abstemious to sing. Jenny Lind soup: Drink. Nerves overstrung. Must be abstemious to sing. Jenny Lind soup:
stock, sage, raw eggs, half pint of cream. For creamy dreamy. stock, sage, raw eggs, half pint of cream. For creamy dreamy.
Tenderness it welled: slow, swelling, full it throbbed. That's the chat. Tenderness it welled: slow, swelling, full it throbbed. That's the chat.
Ha, give! Take! Throb, a throb, a pulsing proud erect. Ha, give! Take! Throb, a throb, a pulsing proud erect.
Words? Music? No: it's what's behind. Words? Music? No: it's what's behind.
Bloom looped, unlooped, noded, disnoded. Bloom looped, unlooped, noded, disnoded.
Bloom. Flood of warm jamjam lickitup secretness flowed to flow in Bloom. Flood of warm jamjam lickitup secretness flowed to flow in
music out, in desire, dark to lick flow invading. Tipping her tepping her music out, in desire, dark to lick flow invading. Tipping her tepping her
tapping her topping her. Tup. Pores to dilate dilating. Tup. The joy the tapping her topping her. Tup. Pores to dilate dilating. Tup. The joy the
feel the warm the. Tup. To pour o'er sluices pouring gushes. Flood, gush, feel the warm the. Tup. To pour o'er sluices pouring gushes. Flood, gush,
flow, joygush, tupthrob. Now! Language of love. flow, joygush, tupthrob. Now! Language of love.
-- ... RAY OF HOPE IS ... -- ... RAY OF HOPE IS ...
Beaming. Lydia for Lidwell squeak scarcely hear so ladylike the muse Beaming. Lydia for Lidwell squeak scarcely hear so ladylike the muse
unsqueaked a ray of hopk. unsqueaked a ray of hopk.
MARTHA it is. Coincidence. Just going to write. Lionel's song. Lovely MARTHA it is. Coincidence. Just going to write. Lionel's song. Lovely
name you have. Can't write. Accept my little pres. Play on her name you have. Can't write. Accept my little pres. Play on her
heartstrings pursestrings too. She's a. I called you naughty boy. Still heartstrings pursestrings too. She's a. I called you naughty boy. Still
the name: Martha. How strange! Today. the name: Martha. How strange! Today.
The voice of Lionel returned, weaker but unwearied. It sang again to The voice of Lionel returned, weaker but unwearied. It sang again to
Richie Poldy Lydia Lidwell also sang to Pat open mouth ear waiting to Richie Poldy Lydia Lidwell also sang to Pat open mouth ear waiting to
wait. How first he saw that form endearing, how sorrow seemed to part, wait. How first he saw that form endearing, how sorrow seemed to part,
how look, form, word charmed him Gould Lidwell, won Pat Bloom's heart. how look, form, word charmed him Gould Lidwell, won Pat Bloom's heart.
Wish I could see his face, though. Explain better. Why the barber in Wish I could see his face, though. Explain better. Why the barber in
Drago's always looked my face when I spoke his face in the glass. Still Drago's always looked my face when I spoke his face in the glass. Still
hear it better here than in the bar though farther. hear it better here than in the bar though farther.
--EACH GRACEFUL LOOK ... --EACH GRACEFUL LOOK ...
First night when first I saw her at Mat Dillon's in Terenure. Yellow, First night when first I saw her at Mat Dillon's in Terenure. Yellow,
black lace she wore. Musical chairs. We two the last. Fate. After her. black lace she wore. Musical chairs. We two the last. Fate. After her.
Fate. Fate.
Round and round slow. Quick round. We two. All looked. Halt. Down she Round and round slow. Quick round. We two. All looked. Halt. Down she
sat. All ousted looked. Lips laughing. Yellow knees. sat. All ousted looked. Lips laughing. Yellow knees.
--CHARMED MY EYE ... --CHARMED MY EYE ...
Singing. WAITING she sang. I turned her music. Full voice of perfume Singing. WAITING she sang. I turned her music. Full voice of perfume
of what perfume does your lilactrees. Bosom I saw, both full, throat of what perfume does your lilactrees. Bosom I saw, both full, throat
warbling. First I saw. She thanked me. Why did she me? Fate. Spanishy warbling. First I saw. She thanked me. Why did she me? Fate. Spanishy
eyes. Under a peartree alone patio this hour in old Madrid one side in eyes. Under a peartree alone patio this hour in old Madrid one side in
shadow Dolores shedolores. At me. Luring. Ah, alluring. shadow Dolores shedolores. At me. Luring. Ah, alluring.
--MARTHA! AH, MARTHA! --MARTHA! AH, MARTHA!
Quitting all languor Lionel cried in grief, in cry of passion dominant Quitting all languor Lionel cried in grief, in cry of passion dominant
to love to return with deepening yet with rising chords of harmony. In cry to love to return with deepening yet with rising chords of harmony. In cry
of lionel loneliness that she should know, must martha feel. For only her of lionel loneliness that she should know, must martha feel. For only her
he waited. Where? Here there try there here all try where. Somewhere. he waited. Where? Here there try there here all try where. Somewhere.
--CO-OME, THOU LOST ONE! --CO-OME, THOU LOST ONE!
  CO-OME, THOU DEAR ONE!   CO-OME, THOU DEAR ONE!
Alone. One love. One hope. One comfort me. Martha, chestnote, return! Alone. One love. One hope. One comfort me. Martha, chestnote, return!
--COME! --COME!
It soared, a bird, it held its flight, a swift pure cry, soar silver orb It soared, a bird, it held its flight, a swift pure cry, soar silver orb
it leaped serene, speeding, sustained, to come, don't spin it out too long it leaped serene, speeding, sustained, to come, don't spin it out too long
long breath he breath long life, soaring high, high resplendent, aflame, long breath he breath long life, soaring high, high resplendent, aflame,
crowned, high in the effulgence symbolistic, high, of the etherial bosom, crowned, high in the effulgence symbolistic, high, of the etherial bosom,
high, of the high vast irradiation everywhere all soaring all around about high, of the high vast irradiation everywhere all soaring all around about
the all, the endlessnessnessness ... the all, the endlessnessnessness ...
--TO ME! --TO ME!
Siopold! Siopold!
Consumed. Consumed.
Come. Well sung. All clapped. She ought to. Come. To me, to him, to Come. Well sung. All clapped. She ought to. Come. To me, to him, to
her, you too, me, us. her, you too, me, us.
--Bravo! Clapclap. Good man, Simon. Clappyclapclap. Encore! --Bravo! Clapclap. Good man, Simon. Clappyclapclap. Encore!
Clapclipclap clap. Sound as a bell. Bravo, Simon! Clapclopclap. Encore, Clapclipclap clap. Sound as a bell. Bravo, Simon! Clapclopclap. Encore,
enclap, said, cried, clapped all, Ben Dollard, Lydia Douce, George enclap, said, cried, clapped all, Ben Dollard, Lydia Douce, George
Lidwell, Pat, Mina Kennedy, two gentlemen with two tankards, Cowley, Lidwell, Pat, Mina Kennedy, two gentlemen with two tankards, Cowley,
first gent with tank and bronze miss Douce and gold MJiss Mina. first gent with tank and bronze miss Douce and gold MJiss Mina.
Blazes Boylan's smart tan shoes creaked on the barfloor, said before. Blazes Boylan's smart tan shoes creaked on the barfloor, said before.
Jingle by monuments of sir John Gray, Horatio onehandled Nelson, Jingle by monuments of sir John Gray, Horatio onehandled Nelson,
reverend father Theobald Mathew, jaunted, as said before just now. Atrot, reverend father Theobald Mathew, jaunted, as said before just now. Atrot,
in heat, heatseated. CLOCHE. SONNEZ LA. CLOCHE. SONNEZ LA. Slower the mare in heat, heatseated. CLOCHE. SONNEZ LA. CLOCHE. SONNEZ LA. Slower the mare
went up the hill by the Rotunda, Rutland square. Too slow for Boylan, went up the hill by the Rotunda, Rutland square. Too slow for Boylan,
blazes Boylan, impatience Boylan, joggled the mare. blazes Boylan, impatience Boylan, joggled the mare.
An afterclang of Cowley's chords closed, died on the air made richer. An afterclang of Cowley's chords closed, died on the air made richer.
And Richie Goulding drank his Power and Leopold Bloom his cider And Richie Goulding drank his Power and Leopold Bloom his cider
drank, Lidwell his Guinness, second gentleman said they would partake of drank, Lidwell his Guinness, second gentleman said they would partake of
two more tankards if she did not mind. Miss Kennedy smirked, disserving, two more tankards if she did not mind. Miss Kennedy smirked, disserving,
Never went back and the soap not paid. Dislike carrying bottles like that Never went back and the soap not paid. Dislike carrying bottles like that
hag this morning. Hynes might have paid me that three shillings. I could hag this morning. Hynes might have paid me that three shillings. I could
mention Meagher's just to remind him. Still if he works that paragraph. mention Meagher's just to remind him. Still if he works that paragraph.
Two and nine. Bad opinion of me he'll have. Call tomorrow. How much do Two and nine. Bad opinion of me he'll have. Call tomorrow. How much do
I owe you? Three and nine? Two and nine, sir. Ah. Might stop him giving I owe you? Three and nine? Two and nine, sir. Ah. Might stop him giving
credit another time. Lose your customers that way. Pubs do. Fellows run up credit another time. Lose your customers that way. Pubs do. Fellows run up
a bill on the slate and then slinking around the back streets into a bill on the slate and then slinking around the back streets into
somewhere else. somewhere else.
Here's this nobleman passed before. Blown in from the bay. Just went Here's this nobleman passed before. Blown in from the bay. Just went
as far as turn back. Always at home at dinnertime. Looks mangled out: had as far as turn back. Always at home at dinnertime. Looks mangled out: had
a good tuck in. Enjoying nature now. Grace after meals. After supper walk a good tuck in. Enjoying nature now. Grace after meals. After supper walk
a mile. Sure he has a small bank balance somewhere, government sit. Walk a mile. Sure he has a small bank balance somewhere, government sit. Walk
after him now make him awkward like those newsboys me today. Still you after him now make him awkward like those newsboys me today. Still you
learn something. See ourselves as others see us. So long as women don't learn something. See ourselves as others see us. So long as women don't
mock what matter? That's the way to find out. Ask yourself who is he now. mock what matter? That's the way to find out. Ask yourself who is he now.
THE MYSTERY MAN ON THE BEACH, prize titbit story by Mr Leopold Bloom. THE MYSTERY MAN ON THE BEACH, prize titbit story by Mr Leopold Bloom.
Payment at the rate of one guinea per column. And that fellow today at the Payment at the rate of one guinea per column. And that fellow today at the
graveside in the brown macintosh. Corns on his kismet however. Healthy graveside in the brown macintosh. Corns on his kismet however. Healthy
perhaps absorb all the. Whistle brings rain they say. Must be some perhaps absorb all the. Whistle brings rain they say. Must be some
somewhere. Salt in the Ormond damp. The body feels the atmosphere. Old somewhere. Salt in the Ormond damp. The body feels the atmosphere. Old
Betty's joints are on the rack. Mother Shipton's prophecy that is about Betty's joints are on the rack. Mother Shipton's prophecy that is about
ships around they fly in the twinkling. No. Signs of rain it is. The royal ships around they fly in the twinkling. No. Signs of rain it is. The royal
reader. And distant hills seem coming nigh. reader. And distant hills seem coming nigh.
Howth. Bailey light. Two, four, six, eight, nine. See. Has to change or Howth. Bailey light. Two, four, six, eight, nine. See. Has to change or
they might think it a house. Wreckers. Grace Darling. People afraid of the they might think it a house. Wreckers. Grace Darling. People afraid of the
dark. Also glowworms, cyclists: lightingup time. Jewels diamonds flash dark. Also glowworms, cyclists: lightingup time. Jewels diamonds flash
better. Women. Light is a kind of reassuring. Not going to hurt you. better. Women. Light is a kind of reassuring. Not going to hurt you.
Better now of course than long ago. Country roads. Run you through the Better now of course than long ago. Country roads. Run you through the
small guts for nothing. Still two types there are you bob against. small guts for nothing. Still two types there are you bob against.
Scowl or smile. Pardon! Not at all. Best time to spray plants too in the Scowl or smile. Pardon! Not at all. Best time to spray plants too in the
shade after the sun. Some light still. Red rays are longest. Roygbiv shade after the sun. Some light still. Red rays are longest. Roygbiv
Vance taught us: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet. Vance taught us: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet.
A star I see. Venus? Can't tell yet. Two. When three it's night. Were A star I see. Venus? Can't tell yet. Two. When three it's night. Were
those nightclouds there all the time? Looks like a phantom ship. No. those nightclouds there all the time? Looks like a phantom ship. No.
Wait. Trees are they? An optical illusion. Mirage. Land of the setting Wait. Trees are they? An optical illusion. Mirage. Land of the setting
sun this. Homerule sun setting in the southeast. My native land, sun this. Homerule sun setting in the southeast. My native land,
goodnight. goodnight.
Dew falling. Bad for you, dear, to sit on that stone. Brings on white Dew falling. Bad for you, dear, to sit on that stone. Brings on white
fluxions. Never have little baby then less he was big strong fight his way fluxions. Never have little baby then less he was big strong fight his way
up through. Might get piles myself. Sticks too like a summer cold, sore on up through. Might get piles myself. Sticks too like a summer cold, sore on
the mouth. Cut with grass or paper worst. Friction of the position. the mouth. Cut with grass or paper worst. Friction of the position.
Like to be that rock she sat on. O sweet little, you don't know how nice Like to be that rock she sat on. O sweet little, you don't know how nice
you looked. I begin to like them at that age. Green apples. Grab at all you looked. I begin to like them at that age. Green apples. Grab at all
that offer. Suppose it's the only time we cross legs, seated. Also the that offer. Suppose it's the only time we cross legs, seated. Also the
library today: those girl graduates. Happy chairs under them. But it's library today: those girl graduates. Happy chairs under them. But it's
the evening influence. They feel all that. Open like flowers, know the evening influence. They feel all that. Open like flowers, know
their hours, sunflowers, Jerusalem artichokes, in ballrooms, chandeliers, their hours, sunflowers, Jerusalem artichokes, in ballrooms, chandeliers,
avenues under the lamps. Nightstock in Mat Dillon's garden where I kissed avenues under the lamps. Nightstock in Mat Dillon's garden where I kissed
her shoulder. Wish I had a full length oilpainting of her then. June her shoulder. Wish I had a full length oilpainting of her then. June
that was too I wooed. The year returns. History repeats itself. that was too I wooed. The year returns. History repeats itself.
Ye crags and peaks I'm with you once again. Life, love, voyage round Ye crags and peaks I'm with you once again. Life, love, voyage round
your own little world. And now? Sad about her lame of course but must your own little world. And now? Sad about her lame of course but must
be on your guard not to feel too much pity. They take advantage. be on your guard not to feel too much pity. They take advantage.
All quiet on Howth now. The distant hills seem. Where we. The All quiet on Howth now. The distant hills seem. Where we. The
rhododendrons. I am a fool perhaps. He gets the plums, and I the rhododendrons. I am a fool perhaps. He gets the plums, and I the
plumstones. Where I come in. All that old hill has seen. Names change: plumstones. Where I come in. All that old hill has seen. Names change:
that's all. Lovers: yum yum. that's all. Lovers: yum yum.
Tired I feel now. Will I get up? O wait. Drained all the manhood out Tired I feel now. Will I get up? O wait. Drained all the manhood out
of me, little wretch. She kissed me. Never again. My youth. Only once it of me, little wretch. She kissed me. Never again. My youth. Only once it
comes. Or hers. Take the train there tomorrow. No. Returning not the comes. Or hers. Take the train there tomorrow. No. Returning not the
same. Like kids your second visit to a house. The new I want. Nothing new same. Like kids your second visit to a house. The new I want. Nothing new
under the sun. Care of P. O. Dolphin's Barn. Are you not happy in your? under the sun. Care of P. O. Dolphin's Barn. Are you not happy in your?
Naughty darling. At Dolphin's barn charades in Luke Doyle's house. Mat Naughty darling. At Dolphin's barn charades in Luke Doyle's house. Mat
Dillon and his bevy of daughters: Tiny, Atty, Floey, Maimy, Louy, Hetty. Dillon and his bevy of daughters: Tiny, Atty, Floey, Maimy, Louy, Hetty.
Molly too. Eightyseven that was. Year before we. And the old major, Molly too. Eightyseven that was. Year before we. And the old major,
partial to his drop of spirits. Curious she an only child, I an only partial to his drop of spirits. Curious she an only child, I an only
child. So it returns. Think you're escaping and run into yourself. Longest child. So it returns. Think you're escaping and run into yourself. Longest
way round is the shortest way home. And just when he and she. Circus horse way round is the shortest way home. And just when he and she. Circus horse
walking in a ring. Rip van Winkle we played. Rip: tear in Henny Doyle's walking in a ring. Rip van Winkle we played. Rip: tear in Henny Doyle's
overcoat. Van: breadvan delivering. Winkle: cockles and periwinkles. Then overcoat. Van: breadvan delivering. Winkle: cockles and periwinkles. Then
I did Rip van Winkle coming back. She leaned on the sideboard watching. I did Rip van Winkle coming back. She leaned on the sideboard watching.
Moorish eyes. Twenty years asleep in Sleepy Hollow. All changed. Moorish eyes. Twenty years asleep in Sleepy Hollow. All changed.
Forgotten. The young are old. His gun rusty from the dew. Forgotten. The young are old. His gun rusty from the dew.
papa's father had on his door to touch. That brought us out of the land papa's father had on his door to touch. That brought us out of the land
of Egypt and into the house of bondage. Something in all those of Egypt and into the house of bondage. Something in all those
superstitions because when you go out never know what dangers. Hanging superstitions because when you go out never know what dangers. Hanging
on to a plank or astride of a beam for grim life, lifebelt round him, on to a plank or astride of a beam for grim life, lifebelt round him,
gulping salt water, and that's the last of his nibs till the sharks gulping salt water, and that's the last of his nibs till the sharks
catch hold of him. Do fish ever get seasick? catch hold of him. Do fish ever get seasick?
Then you have a beautiful calm without a cloud, smooth sea, placid, Then you have a beautiful calm without a cloud, smooth sea, placid,
redolent sea on the wall, staring quite obliviously at it and it at him, redolent sea on the wall, staring quite obliviously at it and it at him,
dreaming of fresh woods and pastures new as someone somewhere sings. And dreaming of fresh woods and pastures new as someone somewhere sings. And
it left him wondering why. Possibly he had tried to find out the secret it left him wondering why. Possibly he had tried to find out the secret
for himself, floundering up and down the antipodes and all that sort of for himself, floundering up and down the antipodes and all that sort of
thing and over and under, well, not exactly under, tempting the fates. thing and over and under, well, not exactly under, tempting the fates.
And the odds were twenty to nil there was really no secret about it at And the odds were twenty to nil there was really no secret about it at
all. Nevertheless, without going into the MINUTIAE of the business, the all. Nevertheless, without going into the MINUTIAE of the business, the
eloquent fact remained that the sea was there in all its glory and in the eloquent fact remained that the sea was there in all its glory and in the
natural course of things somebody or other had to sail on it and fly in natural course of things somebody or other had to sail on it and fly in
the face of providence though it merely went to show how people usually the face of providence though it merely went to show how people usually
contrived to load that sort of onus on to the other fellow like the hell contrived to load that sort of onus on to the other fellow like the hell
idea and the lottery and insurance which were run on identically the same idea and the lottery and insurance which were run on identically the same
lines so that for that very reason if no other lifeboat Sunday was a lines so that for that very reason if no other lifeboat Sunday was a
highly laudable institution to which the public at large, no matter where highly laudable institution to which the public at large, no matter where
living inland or seaside, as the case might be, having it brought home to living inland or seaside, as the case might be, having it brought home to
them like that should extend its gratitude also to the harbourmasters and them like that should extend its gratitude also to the harbourmasters and
coastguard service who had to man the rigging and push off and out amid coastguard service who had to man the rigging and push off and out amid
the elements whatever the season when duty called IRELAND EXPECTS THAT the elements whatever the season when duty called IRELAND EXPECTS THAT
EVERY MAN and so on and sometimes had a terrible time of it in the EVERY MAN and so on and sometimes had a terrible time of it in the
wintertime not forgetting the Irish lights, Kish and others, liable to wintertime not forgetting the Irish lights, Kish and others, liable to
capsize at any moment, rounding which he once with his daughter had capsize at any moment, rounding which he once with his daughter had
experienced some remarkably choppy, not to say stormy, weather. experienced some remarkably choppy, not to say stormy, weather.
--There was a fellow sailed with me in the Rover, the old seadog, himself --There was a fellow sailed with me in the Rover, the old seadog, himself
a rover, proceeded, went ashore and took up a soft job as gentleman's a rover, proceeded, went ashore and took up a soft job as gentleman's
valet at six quid a month. Them are his trousers I've on me and he gave valet at six quid a month. Them are his trousers I've on me and he gave
me an oilskin and that jackknife. I'm game for that job, shaving and me an oilskin and that jackknife. I'm game for that job, shaving and
brushup. I hate roaming about. There's my son now, Danny, run off to sea brushup. I hate roaming about. There's my son now, Danny, run off to sea
and his mother got him took in a draper's in Cork where he could be and his mother got him took in a draper's in Cork where he could be
drawing easy money. drawing easy money.
--What age is he? queried one hearer who, by the way, seen from the side, --What age is he? queried one hearer who, by the way, seen from the side,
bore a distant resemblance to Henry Campbell, the townclerk, away from bore a distant resemblance to Henry Campbell, the townclerk, away from
the carking cares of office, unwashed of course and in a seedy getup and the carking cares of office, unwashed of course and in a seedy getup and
a strong suspicion of nosepaint about the nasal appendage. a strong suspicion of nosepaint about the nasal appendage.
--Why, the sailor answered with a slow puzzled utterance, my son, Danny? --Why, the sailor answered with a slow puzzled utterance, my son, Danny?
He'd be about eighteen now, way I figure it. He'd be about eighteen now, way I figure it.
The Skibbereen father hereupon tore open his grey or unclean anyhow shirt The Skibbereen father hereupon tore open his grey or unclean anyhow shirt
with his two hands and scratched away at his chest on which was to be with his two hands and scratched away at his chest on which was to be
seen an image tattooed in blue Chinese ink intended to represent an seen an image tattooed in blue Chinese ink intended to represent an
anchor. anchor.
--There was lice in that bunk in Bridgwater, he remarked, sure as nuts. I --There was lice in that bunk in Bridgwater, he remarked, sure as nuts. I
must get a wash tomorrow or next day. It's them black lads I objects to. must get a wash tomorrow or next day. It's them black lads I objects to.
I hate those buggers. Suck your blood dry, they does. I hate those buggers. Suck your blood dry, they does.
Seeing they were all looking at his chest he accommodatingly dragged his Seeing they were all looking at his chest he accommodatingly dragged his
shirt more open so that on top of the timehonoured symbol of the shirt more open so that on top of the timehonoured symbol of the
mariner's hope and rest they had a full view of the figure 16 and a young mariner's hope and rest they had a full view of the figure 16 and a young
man's sideface looking frowningly rather. man's sideface looking frowningly rather.
--Tattoo, the exhibitor explained. That was done when we were Iying --Tattoo, the exhibitor explained. That was done when we were Iying
becalmed off Odessa in the Black Sea under Captain Dalton. Fellow, the becalmed off Odessa in the Black Sea under Captain Dalton. Fellow, the
name of Antonio, done that. There he is himself, a Greek. name of Antonio, done that. There he is himself, a Greek.
--Did it hurt much doing it? one asked the sailor. --Did it hurt much doing it? one asked the sailor.
That worthy, however, was busily engaged in collecting round the. Someway That worthy, however, was busily engaged in collecting round the. Someway
in his. Squeezing or. in his. Squeezing or.
--See here, he said, showing Antonio. There he is cursing the mate. And --See here, he said, showing Antonio. There he is cursing the mate. And
there he is now, he added, the same fellow, pulling the skin with his there he is now, he added, the same fellow, pulling the skin with his
fingers, some special knack evidently, and he laughing at a yarn. fingers, some special knack evidently, and he laughing at a yarn.
And in point of fact the young man named Antonio's livid face did And in point of fact the young man named Antonio's livid face did
actually look like forced smiling and the curious effect excited the actually look like forced smiling and the curious effect excited the
unreserved admiration of everybody including Skin-the-Goat, who this time unreserved admiration of everybody including Skin-the-Goat, who this time
stretched over. stretched over.
--Ay, ay, sighed the sailor, looking down on his manly chest. He's gone --Ay, ay, sighed the sailor, looking down on his manly chest. He's gone
too. Ate by sharks after. Ay, ay. too. Ate by sharks after. Ay, ay.
He let go of the skin so that the profile resumed the normal expression He let go of the skin so that the profile resumed the normal expression
of before. of before.
--Neat bit of work, one longshoreman said. --Neat bit of work, one longshoreman said.
--And what's the number for? loafer number two queried. --And what's the number for? loafer number two queried.
--Eaten alive? a third asked the sailor. --Eaten alive? a third asked the sailor.
--Ay, ay, sighed again the latter personage, more cheerily this time with --Ay, ay, sighed again the latter personage, more cheerily this time with
some sort of a half smile for a brief duration only in the direction of some sort of a half smile for a brief duration only in the direction of
the questioner about the number. Ate. A Greek he was. the questioner about the number. Ate. A Greek he was.
And then he added with rather gallowsbird humour considering his alleged And then he added with rather gallowsbird humour considering his alleged
end: end:
    --AS BAD AS OLD ANTONIO,     --AS BAD AS OLD ANTONIO,
    FOR HE LEFT ME ON MY OWNIO.     FOR HE LEFT ME ON MY OWNIO.
The face of a streetwalker glazed and haggard under a black straw hat The face of a streetwalker glazed and haggard under a black straw hat
peered askew round the door of the shelter palpably reconnoitring on her peered askew round the door of the shelter palpably reconnoitring on her
own with the object of bringing more grist to her mill. Mr Bloom, own with the object of bringing more grist to her mill. Mr Bloom,
scarcely knowing which way to look, turned away on the moment flusterfied scarcely knowing which way to look, turned away on the moment flusterfied
but outwardly calm, and, picking up from the table the pink sheet of the but outwardly calm, and, picking up from the table the pink sheet of the
Abbey street organ which the jarvey, if such he was, had laid aside, he Abbey street organ which the jarvey, if such he was, had laid aside, he
picked it up and looked at the pink of the paper though why pink. His picked it up and looked at the pink of the paper though why pink. His
reason for so doing was he recognised on the moment round the door the reason for so doing was he recognised on the moment round the door the
same face he had caught a fleeting glimpse of that afternoon on Ormond same face he had caught a fleeting glimpse of that afternoon on Ormond
quay, the partially idiotic female, namely, of the lane who knew the lady quay, the partially idiotic female, namely, of the lane who knew the lady
in the brown costume does be with you (Mrs B.) and begged the chance of in the brown costume does be with you (Mrs B.) and begged the chance of
his washing. Also why washing which seemed rather vague than not, your his washing. Also why washing which seemed rather vague than not, your
washing. Still candour compelled him to admit he had washed his wife's washing. Still candour compelled him to admit he had washed his wife's
undergarments when soiled in Holles street and women would and did too a undergarments when soiled in Holles street and women would and did too a
man's similar garments initialled with Bewley and Draper's marking ink man's similar garments initialled with Bewley and Draper's marking ink
(hers were, that is) if they really loved him, that is to say, love me, (hers were, that is) if they really loved him, that is to say, love me,
love my dirty shirt. Still just then, being on tenterhooks, he desired love my dirty shirt. Still just then, being on tenterhooks, he desired
the female's room more than her company so it came as a genuine relief the female's room more than her company so it came as a genuine relief
when the keeper made her a rude sign to take herself off. Round the side when the keeper made her a rude sign to take herself off. Round the side
of the Evening Telegraph he just caught a fleeting glimpse of her face of the Evening Telegraph he just caught a fleeting glimpse of her face
round the side of the door with a kind of demented glassy grin showing round the side of the door with a kind of demented glassy grin showing
that she was not exactly all there, viewing with evident amusement the that she was not exactly all there, viewing with evident amusement the
group of gazers round skipper Murphy's nautical chest and then there was group of gazers round skipper Murphy's nautical chest and then there was
no more of her. no more of her.
--The gunboat, the keeper said. --The gunboat, the keeper said.
--It beats me, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen, medically I am speaking, how --It beats me, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen, medically I am speaking, how
a wretched creature like that from the Lock hospital reeking with disease a wretched creature like that from the Lock hospital reeking with disease
can be barefaced enough to solicit or how any man in his sober senses, if can be barefaced enough to solicit or how any man in his sober senses, if
he values his health in the least. Unfortunate creature! Of course I he values his health in the least. Unfortunate creature! Of course I
suppose some man is ultimately responsible for her condition. Still no suppose some man is ultimately responsible for her condition. Still no
matter what the cause is from ... matter what the cause is from ...
Stephen had not noticed her and shrugged his shoulders, merely remarking: Stephen had not noticed her and shrugged his shoulders, merely remarking:
--In this country people sell much more than she ever had and do a --In this country people sell much more than she ever had and do a
roaring trade. Fear not them that sell the body but have not power to buy roaring trade. Fear not them that sell the body but have not power to buy
the soul. She is a bad merchant. She buys dear and sells cheap. the soul. She is a bad merchant. She buys dear and sells cheap.
The elder man, though not by any manner of means an old maid or a prude, The elder man, though not by any manner of means an old maid or a prude,
said it was nothing short of a crying scandal that ought to be put a stop said it was nothing short of a crying scandal that ought to be put a stop
to INSTANTER to say that women of that stamp (quite apart from any to INSTANTER to say that women of that stamp (quite apart from any
oldmaidish squeamishness on the subject), a necessary evil, w ere not oldmaidish squeamishness on the subject), a necessary evil, w ere not
licensed and medically inspected by the proper authorities, a thing, he licensed and medically inspected by the proper authorities, a thing, he
could truthfully state, he, as a PATERFAMILIAS, was a stalwart advocate could truthfully state, he, as a PATERFAMILIAS, was a stalwart advocate
of from the very first start. Whoever embarked on a policy of the sort, of from the very first start. Whoever embarked on a policy of the sort,
he said, and ventilated the matter thoroughly would confer a lasting boon he said, and ventilated the matter thoroughly would confer a lasting boon
on everybody concerned. on everybody concerned.
--You as a good catholic, he observed, talking of body and soul, believe --You as a good catholic, he observed, talking of body and soul, believe
in the soul. Or do you mean the intelligence, the brainpower as such, as in the soul. Or do you mean the intelligence, the brainpower as such, as
distinct from any outside object, the table, let us say, that cup. I distinct from any outside object, the table, let us say, that cup. I
believe in that myself because it has been explained by competent men as believe in that myself because it has been explained by competent men as
the convolutions of the grey matter. Otherwise we would never have such the convolutions of the grey matter. Otherwise we would never have such
inventions as X rays, for instance. Do you? inventions as X rays, for instance. Do you?
Thus cornered, Stephen had to make a superhuman effort of memory to try Thus cornered, Stephen had to make a superhuman effort of memory to try
it into the cap held out to her. The sailor grumbled thanks, glanced it into the cap held out to her. The sailor grumbled thanks, glanced
sourly at the unheeding windows, sank his head and swung himself forward sourly at the unheeding windows, sank his head and swung himself forward
four strides. four strides.
He halted and growled angrily: He halted and growled angrily:
--FOR ENGLAND ... --FOR ENGLAND ...
Two barefoot urchins, sucking long liquorice laces, halted near him, Two barefoot urchins, sucking long liquorice laces, halted near him,
gaping at his stump with their yellowslobbered mouths. gaping at his stump with their yellowslobbered mouths.
He swung himself forward in vigorous jerks, halted, lifted his head He swung himself forward in vigorous jerks, halted, lifted his head
towards a window and bayed deeply: towards a window and bayed deeply:
--HOME AND BEAUTY. --HOME AND BEAUTY.
The gay sweet chirping whistling within went on a bar or two, ceased. The gay sweet chirping whistling within went on a bar or two, ceased.
The blind of the window was drawn aside. A card UNFURNISHED APARTMENTS The blind of the window was drawn aside. A card UNFURNISHED APARTMENTS
slipped from the sash and fell. A plump bare generous arm shone, was seen, slipped from the sash and fell. A plump bare generous arm shone, was seen,
held forth from a white petticoatbodice and taut shiftstraps. A woman's held forth from a white petticoatbodice and taut shiftstraps. A woman's
hand flung forth a coin over the area railings. It fell on the path. hand flung forth a coin over the area railings. It fell on the path.
One of the urchins ran to it, picked it up and dropped it into the One of the urchins ran to it, picked it up and dropped it into the
minstrel's cap, saying: minstrel's cap, saying:
--There, sir. --There, sir.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
Katey and Boody Dedalus shoved in the door of the closesteaming Katey and Boody Dedalus shoved in the door of the closesteaming
kitchen. kitchen.
--Did you put in the books? Boody asked. --Did you put in the books? Boody asked.
Maggy at the range rammed down a greyish mass beneath bubbling Maggy at the range rammed down a greyish mass beneath bubbling
suds twice with her potstick and wiped her brow. suds twice with her potstick and wiped her brow.
--They wouldn't give anything on them, she said. --They wouldn't give anything on them, she said.
Father Conmee walked through Clongowes fields, his thinsocked Father Conmee walked through Clongowes fields, his thinsocked
ankles tickled by stubble. ankles tickled by stubble.
--Where did you try? Boody asked. --Where did you try? Boody asked.
--M'Guinness's. --M'Guinness's.
Boody stamped her foot and threw her satchel on the table. Boody stamped her foot and threw her satchel on the table.
--Bad cess to her big face! she cried. --Bad cess to her big face! she cried.
Katey went to the range and peered with squinting eyes. Katey went to the range and peered with squinting eyes.
--What's in the pot? she asked. --What's in the pot? she asked.
--Shirts, Maggy said. --Shirts, Maggy said.
Boody cried angrily: Boody cried angrily:
--Crickey, is there nothing for us to eat? --Crickey, is there nothing for us to eat?
Katey, lifting the kettlelid in a pad of her stained skirt, asked: Katey, lifting the kettlelid in a pad of her stained skirt, asked:
--And what's in this? --And what's in this?
A heavy fume gushed in answer. A heavy fume gushed in answer.
--Peasoup, Maggy said. --Peasoup, Maggy said.
--Where did you get it? Katey asked. --Where did you get it? Katey asked.
--Sister Mary Patrick, Maggy said. --Sister Mary Patrick, Maggy said.
The lacquey rang his bell. The lacquey rang his bell.
--Barang! --Barang!
Boody sat down at the table and said hungrily: Boody sat down at the table and said hungrily:
--Give us it here. --Give us it here.
Maggy poured yellow thick soup from the kettle into a bowl. Katey, Maggy poured yellow thick soup from the kettle into a bowl. Katey,
sitting opposite Boody, said quietly, as her fingertip lifted to her mouth sitting opposite Boody, said quietly, as her fingertip lifted to her mouth
random crumbs: random crumbs:
--A good job we have that much. Where's Dilly? --A good job we have that much. Where's Dilly?
--Gone to meet father, Maggy said. --Gone to meet father, Maggy said.
Boody, breaking big chunks of bread into the yellow soup, added: Boody, breaking big chunks of bread into the yellow soup, added:
--Our father who art not in heaven. --Our father who art not in heaven.
Maggy, pouring yellow soup in Katey's bowl, exclaimed: Maggy, pouring yellow soup in Katey's bowl, exclaimed:
--Boody! For shame! --Boody! For shame!
A skiff, a crumpled throwaway, Elijah is coming, rode lightly down A skiff, a crumpled throwaway, Elijah is coming, rode lightly down
the Liffey, under Loopline bridge, shooting the rapids where water chafed the Liffey, under Loopline bridge, shooting the rapids where water chafed
around the bridgepiers, sailing eastward past hulls and anchorchains, around the bridgepiers, sailing eastward past hulls and anchorchains,
between the Customhouse old dock and George's quay. between the Customhouse old dock and George's quay.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
The blond girl in Thornton's bedded the wicker basket with rustling The blond girl in Thornton's bedded the wicker basket with rustling
fibre. Blazes Boylan handed her the bottle swathed in pink tissue paper fibre. Blazes Boylan handed her the bottle swathed in pink tissue paper
and a small jar. and a small jar.
--Put these in first, will you? he said. --Put these in first, will you? he said.
--Yes, sir, the blond girl said. And the fruit on top. --Yes, sir, the blond girl said. And the fruit on top.
--That'll do, game ball, Blazes Boylan said. --That'll do, game ball, Blazes Boylan said.
She bestowed fat pears neatly, head by tail, and among them ripe She bestowed fat pears neatly, head by tail, and among them ripe
shamefaced peaches. shamefaced peaches.
Blazes Boylan walked here and there in new tan shoes about the Blazes Boylan walked here and there in new tan shoes about the
fruitsmelling shop, lifting fruits, young juicy crinkled and plump red fruitsmelling shop, lifting fruits, young juicy crinkled and plump red
tomatoes, sniffing smells. tomatoes, sniffing smells.
H. E. L. Y.'S filed before him, tallwhitehatted, past Tangier lane, H. E. L. Y.'S filed before him, tallwhitehatted, past Tangier lane,
plodding towards their goal. plodding towards their goal.
He turned suddenly from a chip of strawberries, drew a gold watch He turned suddenly from a chip of strawberries, drew a gold watch
from his fob and held it at its chain's length. from his fob and held it at its chain's length.
--Can you send them by tram? Now? --Can you send them by tram? Now?
A darkbacked figure under Merchants' arch scanned books on the A darkbacked figure under Merchants' arch scanned books on the
hawker's cart. hawker's cart.
--Certainly, sir. Is it in the city? --Certainly, sir. Is it in the city?
--O, yes, Blazes Boylan said. Ten minutes. --O, yes, Blazes Boylan said. Ten minutes.
The blond girl handed him a docket and pencil. The blond girl handed him a docket and pencil.
--Will you write the address, sir? --Will you write the address, sir?
Blazes Boylan at the counter wrote and pushed the docket to her. Blazes Boylan at the counter wrote and pushed the docket to her.
--Send it at once, will you? he said. It's for an invalid. --Send it at once, will you? he said. It's for an invalid.
--Yes, sir. I will, sir. --Yes, sir. I will, sir.
Blazes Boylan rattled merry money in his trousers' pocket. Blazes Boylan rattled merry money in his trousers' pocket.
--What's the damage? he asked. --What's the damage? he asked.
The blond girl's slim fingers reckoned the fruits. The blond girl's slim fingers reckoned the fruits.
Blazes Boylan looked into the cut of her blouse. A young pullet. He Blazes Boylan looked into the cut of her blouse. A young pullet. He
took a red carnation from the tall stemglass. took a red carnation from the tall stemglass.
--This for me? he asked gallantly. --This for me? he asked gallantly.
The blond girl glanced sideways at him, got up regardless, with his tie The blond girl glanced sideways at him, got up regardless, with his tie
a bit crooked, blushing. a bit crooked, blushing.
--Yes, sir, she said. --Yes, sir, she said.
Bending archly she reckoned again fat pears and blushing peaches. Bending archly she reckoned again fat pears and blushing peaches.
Blazes Boylan looked in her blouse with more favour, the stalk of the Blazes Boylan looked in her blouse with more favour, the stalk of the
red flower between his smiling teeth. red flower between his smiling teeth.
--May I say a word to your telephone, missy? he asked roguishly. --May I say a word to your telephone, missy? he asked roguishly.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
--MA! Almidano Artifoni said. --MA! Almidano Artifoni said.
He gazed over Stephen's shoulder at Goldsmith's knobby poll. He gazed over Stephen's shoulder at Goldsmith's knobby poll.
Two carfuls of tourists passed slowly, their women sitting fore, Two carfuls of tourists passed slowly, their women sitting fore,
gripping the handrests. Palefaces. Men's arms frankly round their stunted gripping the handrests. Palefaces. Men's arms frankly round their stunted
forms. They looked from Trinity to the blind columned porch of the bank forms. They looked from Trinity to the blind columned porch of the bank
of Ireland where pigeons roocoocooed. of Ireland where pigeons roocoocooed.
--ANCH'IO HO AVUTO DI QUESTE IDEE, Almidano Artifoni said, QUAND' ERO --ANCH'IO HO AVUTO DI QUESTE IDEE, Almidano Artifoni said, QUAND' ERO
GIOVINE COME LEI. EPPOI MI SONO CONVINTO CHE IL MONDO E UNA BESTIA. GIOVINE COME LEI. EPPOI MI SONO CONVINTO CHE IL MONDO E UNA BESTIA.
PECCATO. PERCHE LA SUA VOCE ... SAREBBE UN CESPITE DI RENDITA, VIA. PECCATO. PERCHE LA SUA VOCE ... SAREBBE UN CESPITE DI RENDITA, VIA.
INVECE, LEI SI SACRIFICA. INVECE, LEI SI SACRIFICA.
--SACRIFIZIO INCRUENTO, Stephen said smiling, swaying his ashplant in slow --SACRIFIZIO INCRUENTO, Stephen said smiling, swaying his ashplant in slow
swingswong from its midpoint, lightly. swingswong from its midpoint, lightly.
--SPERIAMO, the round mustachioed face said pleasantly. MA, DIA RETTA A --SPERIAMO, the round mustachioed face said pleasantly. MA, DIA RETTA A
ME. CI RIFLETTA. ME. CI RIFLETTA.
By the stern stone hand of Grattan, bidding halt, an Inchicore tram By the stern stone hand of Grattan, bidding halt, an Inchicore tram
unloaded straggling Highland soldiers of a band. unloaded straggling Highland soldiers of a band.
--CI RIFLETTERO, Stephen said, glancing down the solid trouserleg. --CI RIFLETTERO, Stephen said, glancing down the solid trouserleg.
--MA, SUL SERIO, EH? Almidano Artifoni said. --MA, SUL SERIO, EH? Almidano Artifoni said.
His heavy hand took Stephen's firmly. Human eyes. They gazed His heavy hand took Stephen's firmly. Human eyes. They gazed
curiously an instant and turned quickly towards a Dalkey tram. curiously an instant and turned quickly towards a Dalkey tram.
--ECCOLO, Almidano Artifoni said in friendly haste. VENGA A TROVARMI E CI --ECCOLO, Almidano Artifoni said in friendly haste. VENGA A TROVARMI E CI
PENSI. ADDIO, CARO. PENSI. ADDIO, CARO.
--ARRIVEDERLA, MAESTRO, Stephen said, raising his hat when his hand was --ARRIVEDERLA, MAESTRO, Stephen said, raising his hat when his hand was
--No, Ned. --No, Ned.
--He rode down through Dame walk, the refined accent said, if my --He rode down through Dame walk, the refined accent said, if my
memory serves me. The mansion of the Kildares was in Thomas court. memory serves me. The mansion of the Kildares was in Thomas court.
--That's right, Ned Lambert said. That's quite right, sir. --That's right, Ned Lambert said. That's quite right, sir.
--If you will be so kind then, the clergyman said, the next time to allow --If you will be so kind then, the clergyman said, the next time to allow
me perhaps ... me perhaps ...
--Certainly, Ned Lambert said. Bring the camera whenever you like. I'll --Certainly, Ned Lambert said. Bring the camera whenever you like. I'll
get those bags cleared away from the windows. You can take it from here or get those bags cleared away from the windows. You can take it from here or
from here. from here.
In the still faint light he moved about, tapping with his lath the piled In the still faint light he moved about, tapping with his lath the piled
seedbags and points of vantage on the floor. seedbags and points of vantage on the floor.
From a long face a beard and gaze hung on a chessboard. From a long face a beard and gaze hung on a chessboard.
--I'm deeply obliged, Mr Lambert, the clergyman said. I won't trespass on --I'm deeply obliged, Mr Lambert, the clergyman said. I won't trespass on
your valuable time ... your valuable time ...
--You're welcome, sir, Ned Lambert said. Drop in whenever you like. Next --You're welcome, sir, Ned Lambert said. Drop in whenever you like. Next
week, say. Can you see? week, say. Can you see?
--Yes, yes. Good afternoon, Mr Lambert. Very pleased to have met you. --Yes, yes. Good afternoon, Mr Lambert. Very pleased to have met you.
--Pleasure is mine, sir, Ned Lambert answered. --Pleasure is mine, sir, Ned Lambert answered.
He followed his guest to the outlet and then whirled his lath away He followed his guest to the outlet and then whirled his lath away
among the pillars. With J. J. O'Molloy he came forth slowly into Mary's among the pillars. With J. J. O'Molloy he came forth slowly into Mary's
abbey where draymen were loading floats with sacks of carob and palmnut abbey where draymen were loading floats with sacks of carob and palmnut
meal, O'Connor, Wexford. meal, O'Connor, Wexford.
He stood to read the card in his hand. He stood to read the card in his hand.
--The reverend Hugh C. Love, Rathcoffey. Present address: Saint --The reverend Hugh C. Love, Rathcoffey. Present address: Saint
Michael's, Sallins. Nice young chap he is. He's writing a book about the Michael's, Sallins. Nice young chap he is. He's writing a book about the
Fitzgeralds he told me. He's well up in history, faith. Fitzgeralds he told me. He's well up in history, faith.
The young woman with slow care detached from her light skirt a The young woman with slow care detached from her light skirt a
clinging twig. clinging twig.
--I thought you were at a new gunpowder plot, J. J. O'Molloy said. --I thought you were at a new gunpowder plot, J. J. O'Molloy said.
Ned Lambert cracked his fingers in the air. Ned Lambert cracked his fingers in the air.
--God! he cried. I forgot to tell him that one about the earl of Kildare --God! he cried. I forgot to tell him that one about the earl of Kildare
after he set fire to Cashel cathedral. You know that one? I'M BLOODY SORRY after he set fire to Cashel cathedral. You know that one? I'M BLOODY SORRY
I DID IT, says he, BUT I DECLARE TO GOD I THOUGHT THE ARCHBISHOP WAS I DID IT, says he, BUT I DECLARE TO GOD I THOUGHT THE ARCHBISHOP WAS
INSIDE. He mightn't like it, though. What? God, I'll tell him anyhow. INSIDE. He mightn't like it, though. What? God, I'll tell him anyhow.
That was the great earl, the Fitzgerald Mor. Hot members they were all of That was the great earl, the Fitzgerald Mor. Hot members they were all of
them, the Geraldines. them, the Geraldines.
The horses he passed started nervously under their slack harness. He The horses he passed started nervously under their slack harness. He
slapped a piebald haunch quivering near him and cried: slapped a piebald haunch quivering near him and cried:
--Woa, sonny! --Woa, sonny!
He turned to J. J. O'Molloy and asked: He turned to J. J. O'Molloy and asked:
--Well, Jack. What is it? What's the trouble? Wait awhile. Hold hard. --Well, Jack. What is it? What's the trouble? Wait awhile. Hold hard.
With gaping mouth and head far back he stood still and, after an With gaping mouth and head far back he stood still and, after an
instant, sneezed loudly. instant, sneezed loudly.
--Chow! he said. Blast you! --Chow! he said. Blast you!
--The dust from those sacks, J. J. O'Molloy said politely. --The dust from those sacks, J. J. O'Molloy said politely.
--No, Ned Lambert gasped, I caught a ... cold night before ... blast --No, Ned Lambert gasped, I caught a ... cold night before ... blast
your soul ... night before last ... and there was a hell of a lot of your soul ... night before last ... and there was a hell of a lot of
draught ... draught ...
He held his handkerchief ready for the coming ... He held his handkerchief ready for the coming ...
--I was ... Glasnevin this morning ... poor little ... what do you call --I was ... Glasnevin this morning ... poor little ... what do you call
him ... Chow! ... Mother of Moses! him ... Chow! ... Mother of Moses!
    * * * * *     * * * * *
Tom Rochford took the top disk from the pile he clasped against his Tom Rochford took the top disk from the pile he clasped against his
claret waistcoat. claret waistcoat.
--See? he said. Say it's turn six. In here, see. Turn Now On. --See? he said. Say it's turn six. In here, see. Turn Now On.
He slid it into the left slot for them. It shot down the groove, wobbled He slid it into the left slot for them. It shot down the groove, wobbled
a while, ceased, ogling them: six. a while, ceased, ogling them: six.
Lawyers of the past, haughty, pleading, beheld pass from the Lawyers of the past, haughty, pleading, beheld pass from the
consolidated taxing office to Nisi Prius court Richie Goulding carrying consolidated taxing office to Nisi Prius court Richie Goulding carrying
the costbag of Goulding, Collis and Ward and heard rustling from the the costbag of Goulding, Collis and Ward and heard rustling from the
admiralty division of king's bench to the court of appeal an elderly admiralty division of king's bench to the court of appeal an elderly
female with false teeth smiling incredulously and a black silk skirt of female with false teeth smiling incredulously and a black silk skirt of
great amplitude. great amplitude.
--See? he said. See now the last one I put in is over here: Turns Over. --See? he said. See now the last one I put in is over here: Turns Over.
The impact. Leverage, see? The impact. Leverage, see?
He showed them the rising column of disks on the right. He showed them the rising column of disks on the right.
--Smart idea, Nosey Flynn said, snuffling. So a fellow coming in late can --Smart idea, Nosey Flynn said, snuffling. So a fellow coming in late can
see what turn is on and what turns are over. see what turn is on and what turns are over.
--See? Tom Rochford said. --See? Tom Rochford said.
He slid in a disk for himself: and watched it shoot, wobble, ogle, stop: He slid in a disk for himself: and watched it shoot, wobble, ogle, stop:
four. Turn Now On. four. Turn Now On.
--I'll see him now in the Ormond, Lenehan said, and sound him. One good --I'll see him now in the Ormond, Lenehan said, and sound him. One good
turn deserves another. turn deserves another.
--Do, Tom Rochford said. Tell him I'm Boylan with impatience. --Do, Tom Rochford said. Tell him I'm Boylan with impatience.
--Goodnight, M'Coy said abruptly. When you two begin --Goodnight, M'Coy said abruptly. When you two begin
Nosey Flynn stooped towards the lever, snuffling at it. Nosey Flynn stooped towards the lever, snuffling at it.
--But how does it work here, Tommy? he asked. --But how does it work here, Tommy? he asked.
--Tooraloo, Lenehan said. See you later. --Tooraloo, Lenehan said. See you later.
He followed M'Coy out across the tiny square of Crampton court. He followed M'Coy out across the tiny square of Crampton court.
--He's a hero, he said simply. --He's a hero, he said simply.
--I know, M'Coy said. The drain, you mean. --I know, M'Coy said. The drain, you mean.
--Drain? Lenehan said. It was down a manhole. --Drain? Lenehan said. It was down a manhole.
They passed Dan Lowry's musichall where Marie Kendall, charming They passed Dan Lowry's musichall where Marie Kendall, charming
soubrette, smiled on them from a poster a dauby smile. soubrette, smiled on them from a poster a dauby smile.
Going down the path of Sycamore street beside the Empire musichall Going down the path of Sycamore street beside the Empire musichall
Lenehan showed M'Coy how the whole thing was. One of those manholes Lenehan showed M'Coy how the whole thing was. One of those manholes
like a bloody gaspipe and there was the poor devil stuck down in it, half like a bloody gaspipe and there was the poor devil stuck down in it, half
choked with sewer gas. Down went Tom Rochford anyhow, booky's vest choked with sewer gas. Down went Tom Rochford anyhow, booky's vest
and all, with the rope round him. And be damned but he got the rope round and all, with the rope round him. And be damned but he got the rope round
the poor devil and the two were hauled up. the poor devil and the two were hauled up.
--The act of a hero, he said. --The act of a hero, he said.
At the Dolphin they halted to allow the ambulance car to gallop past At the Dolphin they halted to allow the ambulance car to gallop past
them for Jervis street. them for Jervis street.
--This way, he said, walking to the right. I want to pop into Lynam's to --This way, he said, walking to the right. I want to pop into Lynam's to
see Sceptre's starting price. What's the time by your gold watch and see Sceptre's starting price. What's the time by your gold watch and
chain? chain?
M'Coy peered into Marcus Tertius Moses' sombre office, then at M'Coy peered into Marcus Tertius Moses' sombre office, then at
O'Neill's clock. O'Neill's clock.
--After three, he said. Who's riding her? --After three, he said. Who's riding her?
--O. Madden, Lenehan said. And a game filly she is. --O. Madden, Lenehan said. And a game filly she is.
While he waited in Temple bar M'Coy dodged a banana peel with While he waited in Temple bar M'Coy dodged a banana peel with
gentle pushes of his toe from the path to the gutter. Fellow might damn gentle pushes of his toe from the path to the gutter. Fellow might damn
easy get a nasty fall there coming along tight in the dark. easy get a nasty fall there coming along tight in the dark.
The gates of the drive opened wide to give egress to the viceregal The gates of the drive opened wide to give egress to the viceregal
cavalcade. cavalcade.
--Even money, Lenehan said returning. I knocked against Bantam Lyons in --Even money, Lenehan said returning. I knocked against Bantam Lyons in
there going to back a bloody horse someone gave him that hasn't an there going to back a bloody horse someone gave him that hasn't an
earthly. Through here. earthly. Through here.
They went up the steps and under Merchants' arch. A darkbacked They went up the steps and under Merchants' arch. A darkbacked
figure scanned books on the hawker's cart. figure scanned books on the hawker's cart.
--There he is, Lenehan said. --There he is, Lenehan said.
--Wonder what he's buying, M'Coy said, glancing behind. --Wonder what he's buying, M'Coy said, glancing behind.
--LEOPOLDO OR THE BLOOM IS ON THE RYE, Lenehan said. --LEOPOLDO OR THE BLOOM IS ON THE RYE, Lenehan said.
--He's dead nuts on sales, M'Coy said. I was with him one day and he --He's dead nuts on sales, M'Coy said. I was with him one day and he
bought a book from an old one in Liffey street for two bob. There were bought a book from an old one in Liffey street for two bob. There were
fine plates in it worth double the money, the stars and the moon and fine plates in it worth double the money, the stars and the moon and
comets with long tails. Astronomy it was about. comets with long tails. Astronomy it was about.
Lenehan laughed. Lenehan laughed.
--I'll tell you a damn good one about comets' tails, he said. Come over in --I'll tell you a damn good one about comets' tails, he said. Come over in
the sun. the sun.
They crossed to the metal bridge and went along Wellington quay by They crossed to the metal bridge and went along Wellington quay by
the riverwall. the riverwall.
Master Patrick Aloysius Dignam came out of Mangan's, late Master Patrick Aloysius Dignam came out of Mangan's, late
Fehrenbach's, carrying a pound and a half of porksteaks. Fehrenbach's, carrying a pound and a half of porksteaks.
--There was a long spread out at Glencree reformatory, Lenehan said --There was a long spread out at Glencree reformatory, Lenehan said
eagerly. The annual dinner, you know. Boiled shirt affair. The lord mayor eagerly. The annual dinner, you know. Boiled shirt affair. The lord mayor
was there, Val Dillon it was, and sir Charles Cameron and Dan Dawson was there, Val Dillon it was, and sir Charles Cameron and Dan Dawson
spoke and there was music. Bartell d'Arcy sang and Benjamin Dollard ... spoke and there was music. Bartell d'Arcy sang and Benjamin Dollard ...
--I know, M'Coy broke in. My missus sang there once. --I know, M'Coy broke in. My missus sang there once.
--Did she? Lenehan said. --Did she? Lenehan said.
A card UNFURNISHED APARTMENTS reappeared on the windowsash of A card UNFURNISHED APARTMENTS reappeared on the windowsash of
number 7 Eccles street. number 7 Eccles street.
He checked his tale a moment but broke out in a wheezy laugh. He checked his tale a moment but broke out in a wheezy laugh.
--But wait till I tell you, he said. Delahunt of Camden street had the --But wait till I tell you, he said. Delahunt of Camden street had the
catering and yours truly was chief bottlewasher. Bloom and the wife were catering and yours truly was chief bottlewasher. Bloom and the wife were
there. Lashings of stuff we put up: port wine and sherry and curacao to there. Lashings of stuff we put up: port wine and sherry and curacao to
which we did ample justice. Fast and furious it was. After liquids came which we did ample justice. Fast and furious it was. After liquids came
solids. Cold joints galore and mince pies ... solids. Cold joints galore and mince pies ...
--I know, M'Coy said. The year the missus was there ... --I know, M'Coy said. The year the missus was there ...
Lenehan linked his arm warmly. Lenehan linked his arm warmly.
--But wait till I tell you, he said. We had a midnight lunch too after all --But wait till I tell you, he said. We had a midnight lunch too after all
the jollification and when we sallied forth it was blue o'clock the the jollification and when we sallied forth it was blue o'clock the
morning after the night before. Coming home it was a gorgeous winter's morning after the night before. Coming home it was a gorgeous winter's
night on the Featherbed Mountain. Bloom and Chris Callinan were on one night on the Featherbed Mountain. Bloom and Chris Callinan were on one
side of the car and I was with the wife on the other. We started singing side of the car and I was with the wife on the other. We started singing
glees and duets: LO, THE EARLY BEAM OF MORNING. She was well primed with a glees and duets: LO, THE EARLY BEAM OF MORNING. She was well primed with a
good load of Delahunt's port under her bellyband. Every jolt the bloody good load of Delahunt's port under her bellyband. Every jolt the bloody
car gave I had her bumping up against me. Hell's delights! She has a fine car gave I had her bumping up against me. Hell's delights! She has a fine
pair, God bless her. Like that. pair, God bless her. Like that.
He held his caved hands a cubit from him, frowning: He held his caved hands a cubit from him, frowning:
--I was tucking the rug under her and settling her boa all the time. Know --I was tucking the rug under her and settling her boa all the time. Know
what I mean? what I mean?
His hands moulded ample curves of air. He shut his eyes tight in His hands moulded ample curves of air. He shut his eyes tight in
delight, his body shrinking, and blew a sweet chirp from his lips. delight, his body shrinking, and blew a sweet chirp from his lips.
--The lad stood to attention anyhow, he said with a sigh. She's a gamey --The lad stood to attention anyhow, he said with a sigh. She's a gamey
mare and no mistake. Bloom was pointing out all the stars and the comets mare and no mistake. Bloom was pointing out all the stars and the comets
in the heavens to Chris Callinan and the jarvey: the great bear and in the heavens to Chris Callinan and the jarvey: the great bear and
Hercules and the dragon, and the whole jingbang lot. But, by God, I was Hercules and the dragon, and the whole jingbang lot. But, by God, I was
lost, so to speak, in the milky way. He knows them all, faith. At last she lost, so to speak, in the milky way. He knows them all, faith. At last she
spotted a weeny weeshy one miles away. AND WHAT STAR IS THAT, POLDY? says spotted a weeny weeshy one miles away. AND WHAT STAR IS THAT, POLDY? says
she. By God, she had Bloom cornered. THAT ONE, IS IT? says Chris Callinan, she. By God, she had Bloom cornered. THAT ONE, IS IT? says Chris Callinan,
SURE THAT'S ONLY WHAT YOU MIGHT CALL A PINPRICK. By God, he wasn't far SURE THAT'S ONLY WHAT YOU MIGHT CALL A PINPRICK. By God, he wasn't far
wide of the mark. wide of the mark.
Lenehan stopped and leaned on the riverwall, panting with soft Lenehan stopped and leaned on the riverwall, panting with soft
laughter. laughter.
--I'm weak, he gasped. --I'm weak, he gasped.
M'Coy's white face smiled about it at instants and grew grave. M'Coy's white face smiled about it at instants and grew grave.
Lenehan walked on again. He lifted his yachtingcap and scratched his Lenehan walked on again. He lifted his yachtingcap and scratched his
hindhead rapidly. He glanced sideways in the sunlight at M'Coy. hindhead rapidly. He glanced sideways in the sunlight at M'Coy.
--He's a cultured allroundman, Bloom is, he said seriously. He's not one --He's a cultured allroundman, Bloom is, he said seriously. He's not one
of your common or garden ... you know ... There's a touch of the artist of your common or garden ... you know ... There's a touch of the artist
about old Bloom. about old Bloom.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
Mr Bloom turned over idly pages of THE AWFUL DISCLOSURES OF MARIA Mr Bloom turned over idly pages of THE AWFUL DISCLOSURES OF MARIA
MONK, then of Aristotle's MASTERPIECE. Crooked botched print. Plates: MONK, then of Aristotle's MASTERPIECE. Crooked botched print. Plates:
infants cuddled in a ball in bloodred wombs like livers of slaughtered infants cuddled in a ball in bloodred wombs like livers of slaughtered
cows. Lots of them like that at this moment all over the world. All cows. Lots of them like that at this moment all over the world. All
butting with their skulls to get out of it. Child born every minute butting with their skulls to get out of it. Child born every minute
somewhere. Mrs Purefoy. somewhere. Mrs Purefoy.
He laid both books aside and glanced at the third: TALES OF THE GHETTO He laid both books aside and glanced at the third: TALES OF THE GHETTO
by Leopold von Sacher Masoch. by Leopold von Sacher Masoch.
--That I had, he said, pushing it by. --That I had, he said, pushing it by.
The shopman let two volumes fall on the counter. The shopman let two volumes fall on the counter.
--Them are two good ones, he said. --Them are two good ones, he said.
Onions of his breath came across the counter out of his ruined Onions of his breath came across the counter out of his ruined
mouth. He bent to make a bundle of the other books, hugged them against mouth. He bent to make a bundle of the other books, hugged them against
his unbuttoned waistcoat and bore them off behind the dingy curtain. his unbuttoned waistcoat and bore them off behind the dingy curtain.
On O'Connell bridge many persons observed the grave deportment On O'Connell bridge many persons observed the grave deportment
and gay apparel of Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c. and gay apparel of Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c.
Mr Bloom, alone, looked at the titles. FAIR TYRANTS by James Lovebirch. Mr Bloom, alone, looked at the titles. FAIR TYRANTS by James Lovebirch.
Know the kind that is. Had it? Yes. Know the kind that is. Had it? Yes.
He opened it. Thought so. He opened it. Thought so.
A woman's voice behind the dingy curtain. Listen: the man. A woman's voice behind the dingy curtain. Listen: the man.
No: she wouldn't like that much. Got her it once. No: she wouldn't like that much. Got her it once.
He read the other title: SWEETS OF SIN. More in her line. Let us see. He read the other title: SWEETS OF SIN. More in her line. Let us see.
He read where his finger opened. He read where his finger opened.
--ALL THE DOLLARBILLS HER HUSBAND GAVE HER WERE SPENT IN THE STORES ON --ALL THE DOLLARBILLS HER HUSBAND GAVE HER WERE SPENT IN THE STORES ON
WONDROUS GOWNS AND COSTLIEST FRILLIES. FOR HIM! FOR RAOUL! WONDROUS GOWNS AND COSTLIEST FRILLIES. FOR HIM! FOR RAOUL!
Yes. This. Here. Try. Yes. This. Here. Try.
--HER MOUTH GLUED ON HIS IN A LUSCIOUS VOLUPTUOUS KISS WHILE HIS HANDS --HER MOUTH GLUED ON HIS IN A LUSCIOUS VOLUPTUOUS KISS WHILE HIS HANDS
FELT FOR THE OPULENT CURVES INSIDE HER DESHABILLE. FELT FOR THE OPULENT CURVES INSIDE HER DESHABILLE.
Yes. Take this. The end. Yes. Take this. The end.
--YOU ARE LATE, HE SPOKE HOARSELY, EYING HER WITH A SUSPICIOUS GLARE. --YOU ARE LATE, HE SPOKE HOARSELY, EYING HER WITH A SUSPICIOUS GLARE.
THE BEAUTIFUL WOMAN THREW OFF HER SABLETRIMMED WRAP, DISPLAYING HER THE BEAUTIFUL WOMAN THREW OFF HER SABLETRIMMED WRAP, DISPLAYING HER
QUEENLY SHOULDERS AND HEAVING EMBONPOINT. AN IMPERCEPTIBLE SMILE PLAYED QUEENLY SHOULDERS AND HEAVING EMBONPOINT. AN IMPERCEPTIBLE SMILE PLAYED
ROUND HER PERFECT LIPS AS SHE TURNED TO HIM CALMLY. ROUND HER PERFECT LIPS AS SHE TURNED TO HIM CALMLY.
Mr Bloom read again: THE BEAUTIFUL WOMAN. Mr Bloom read again: THE BEAUTIFUL WOMAN.
Warmth showered gently over him, cowing his flesh. Flesh yielded Warmth showered gently over him, cowing his flesh. Flesh yielded
amply amid rumpled clothes: whites of eyes swooning up. His nostrils amply amid rumpled clothes: whites of eyes swooning up. His nostrils
arched themselves for prey. Melting breast ointments (FOR HIM! FOR arched themselves for prey. Melting breast ointments (FOR HIM! FOR
RAOUL!). Armpits' oniony sweat. Fishgluey slime (HER HEAVING EMBONPOINT!). RAOUL!). Armpits' oniony sweat. Fishgluey slime (HER HEAVING EMBONPOINT!).
Feel! Press! Crushed! Sulphur dung of lions! Feel! Press! Crushed! Sulphur dung of lions!
Young! Young! Young! Young!
An elderly female, no more young, left the building of the courts of An elderly female, no more young, left the building of the courts of
chancery, king's bench, exchequer and common pleas, having heard in the chancery, king's bench, exchequer and common pleas, having heard in the
lord chancellor's court the case in lunacy of Potterton, in the admiralty lord chancellor's court the case in lunacy of Potterton, in the admiralty
division the summons, exparte motion, of the owners of the Lady Cairns division the summons, exparte motion, of the owners of the Lady Cairns
versus the owners of the barque Mona, in the court of appeal reservation versus the owners of the barque Mona, in the court of appeal reservation
of judgment in the case of Harvey versus the Ocean Accident and Guarantee of judgment in the case of Harvey versus the Ocean Accident and Guarantee
Corporation. Corporation.
Phlegmy coughs shook the air of the bookshop, bulging out the dingy Phlegmy coughs shook the air of the bookshop, bulging out the dingy
curtains. The shopman's uncombed grey head came out and his unshaven curtains. The shopman's uncombed grey head came out and his unshaven
reddened face, coughing. He raked his throat rudely, puked phlegm on the reddened face, coughing. He raked his throat rudely, puked phlegm on the
floor. He put his boot on what he had spat, wiping his sole along it, and floor. He put his boot on what he had spat, wiping his sole along it, and
bent, showing a rawskinned crown, scantily haired. bent, showing a rawskinned crown, scantily haired.
Mr Bloom beheld it. Mr Bloom beheld it.
Mastering his troubled breath, he said: Mastering his troubled breath, he said:
--I'll take this one. --I'll take this one.
The shopman lifted eyes bleared with old rheum. The shopman lifted eyes bleared with old rheum.
--SWEETS OF SIN, he said, tapping on it. That's a good one. --SWEETS OF SIN, he said, tapping on it. That's a good one.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
The lacquey by the door of Dillon's auctionrooms shook his handbell The lacquey by the door of Dillon's auctionrooms shook his handbell
twice again and viewed himself in the chalked mirror of the cabinet. twice again and viewed himself in the chalked mirror of the cabinet.
Dilly Dedalus, loitering by the curbstone, heard the beats of the bell, Dilly Dedalus, loitering by the curbstone, heard the beats of the bell,
the cries of the auctioneer within. Four and nine. Those lovely curtains. the cries of the auctioneer within. Four and nine. Those lovely curtains.
Five shillings. Cosy curtains. Selling new at two guineas. Any advance on Five shillings. Cosy curtains. Selling new at two guineas. Any advance on
five shillings? Going for five shillings. five shillings? Going for five shillings.
The lacquey lifted his handbell and shook it: The lacquey lifted his handbell and shook it:
--Barang! --Barang!
Bang of the lastlap bell spurred the halfmile wheelmen to their sprint. Bang of the lastlap bell spurred the halfmile wheelmen to their sprint.
J. A. Jackson, W. E. Wylie, A. Munro and H. T. Gahan, their stretched J. A. Jackson, W. E. Wylie, A. Munro and H. T. Gahan, their stretched
necks wagging, negotiated the curve by the College library. necks wagging, negotiated the curve by the College library.
Mr Dedalus, tugging a long moustache, came round from Williams's Mr Dedalus, tugging a long moustache, came round from Williams's
row. He halted near his daughter. row. He halted near his daughter.
--It's time for you, she said. --It's time for you, she said.
--Stand up straight for the love of the lord Jesus, Mr Dedalus said. Are --Stand up straight for the love of the lord Jesus, Mr Dedalus said. Are
you trying to imitate your uncle John, the cornetplayer, head upon you trying to imitate your uncle John, the cornetplayer, head upon
shoulder? Melancholy God! shoulder? Melancholy God!
Dilly shrugged her shoulders. Mr Dedalus placed his hands on them Dilly shrugged her shoulders. Mr Dedalus placed his hands on them
and held them back. and held them back.
--Stand up straight, girl, he said. You'll get curvature of the spine. --Stand up straight, girl, he said. You'll get curvature of the spine.
Do you know what you look like? Do you know what you look like?
He let his head sink suddenly down and forward, hunching his He let his head sink suddenly down and forward, hunching his
shoulders and dropping his underjaw. shoulders and dropping his underjaw.
--Give it up, father, Dilly said. All the people are looking at you. --Give it up, father, Dilly said. All the people are looking at you.
Mr Dedalus drew himself upright and tugged again at his moustache. Mr Dedalus drew himself upright and tugged again at his moustache.
--Did you get any money? Dilly asked. --Did you get any money? Dilly asked.
--Where would I get money? Mr Dedalus said. There is no-one in Dublin --Where would I get money? Mr Dedalus said. There is no-one in Dublin
would lend me fourpence. would lend me fourpence.
--You got some, Dilly said, looking in his eyes. --You got some, Dilly said, looking in his eyes.
--How do you know that? Mr Dedalus asked, his tongue in his cheek. --How do you know that? Mr Dedalus asked, his tongue in his cheek.
Mr Kernan, pleased with the order he had booked, walked boldly Mr Kernan, pleased with the order he had booked, walked boldly
along James's street. along James's street.
--I know you did, Dilly answered. Were you in the Scotch house now? --I know you did, Dilly answered. Were you in the Scotch house now?
--I was not, then, Mr Dedalus said, smiling. Was it the little nuns --I was not, then, Mr Dedalus said, smiling. Was it the little nuns
taught you to be so saucy? Here. taught you to be so saucy? Here.
He handed her a shilling. He handed her a shilling.
--See if you can do anything with that, he said. --See if you can do anything with that, he said.
--I suppose you got five, Dilly said. Give me more than that. --I suppose you got five, Dilly said. Give me more than that.
--Wait awhile, Mr Dedalus said threateningly. You're like the rest of --Wait awhile, Mr Dedalus said threateningly. You're like the rest of
them, are you? An insolent pack of little bitches since your poor mother them, are you? An insolent pack of little bitches since your poor mother
died. But wait awhile. You'll all get a short shrift and a long day from died. But wait awhile. You'll all get a short shrift and a long day from
me. Low blackguardism! I'm going to get rid of you. Wouldn't care if I me. Low blackguardism! I'm going to get rid of you. Wouldn't care if I
was stretched out stiff. He's dead. The man upstairs is dead. was stretched out stiff. He's dead. The man upstairs is dead.
He left her and walked on. Dilly followed quickly and pulled his coat. He left her and walked on. Dilly followed quickly and pulled his coat.
--Well, what is it? he said, stopping. --Well, what is it? he said, stopping.
The lacquey rang his bell behind their backs. The lacquey rang his bell behind their backs.
--Barang! --Barang!
--Curse your bloody blatant soul, Mr Dedalus cried, turning on him. --Curse your bloody blatant soul, Mr Dedalus cried, turning on him.
The lacquey, aware of comment, shook the lolling clapper of his bell The lacquey, aware of comment, shook the lolling clapper of his bell
but feebly: but feebly:
--Bang! --Bang!
Mr Dedalus stared at him. Mr Dedalus stared at him.
--Watch him, he said. It's instructive. I wonder will he allow us to talk. --Watch him, he said. It's instructive. I wonder will he allow us to talk.
--You got more than that, father, Dilly said. --You got more than that, father, Dilly said.
--I'm going to show you a little trick, Mr Dedalus said. I'll leave you --I'm going to show you a little trick, Mr Dedalus said. I'll leave you
all where Jesus left the jews. Look, there's all I have. I got two all where Jesus left the jews. Look, there's all I have. I got two
shillings from Jack Power and I spent twopence for a shave for the shillings from Jack Power and I spent twopence for a shave for the
funeral. funeral.
He drew forth a handful of copper coins, nervously. He drew forth a handful of copper coins, nervously.
--Can't you look for some money somewhere? Dilly said. --Can't you look for some money somewhere? Dilly said.
Mr Dedalus thought and nodded. Mr Dedalus thought and nodded.
--I will, he said gravely. I looked all along the gutter in O'Connell --I will, he said gravely. I looked all along the gutter in O'Connell
street. I'll try this one now. street. I'll try this one now.
--You're very funny, Dilly said, grinning. --You're very funny, Dilly said, grinning.
--Here, Mr Dedalus said, handing her two pennies. Get a glass of milk for --Here, Mr Dedalus said, handing her two pennies. Get a glass of milk for
yourself and a bun or a something. I'll be home shortly. yourself and a bun or a something. I'll be home shortly.
He put the other coins in his pocket and started to walk on. He put the other coins in his pocket and started to walk on.
The viceregal cavalcade passed, greeted by obsequious policemen, out The viceregal cavalcade passed, greeted by obsequious policemen, out
of Parkgate. of Parkgate.
--I'm sure you have another shilling, Dilly said. --I'm sure you have another shilling, Dilly said.
The lacquey banged loudly. The lacquey banged loudly.
Mr Dedalus amid the din walked off, murmuring to himself with a Mr Dedalus amid the din walked off, murmuring to himself with a
pursing mincing mouth gently: pursing mincing mouth gently:
--The little nuns! Nice little things! O, sure they wouldn't do anything! --The little nuns! Nice little things! O, sure they wouldn't do anything!
O, sure they wouldn't really! Is it little sister Monica! O, sure they wouldn't really! Is it little sister Monica!
    * * * * *     * * * * *
From the sundial towards James's gate walked Mr Kernan, pleased with the From the sundial towards James's gate walked Mr Kernan, pleased with the
order he had booked for Pulbrook Robertson, boldly along James's street, order he had booked for Pulbrook Robertson, boldly along James's street,
past Shackleton's offices. Got round him all right. How do you do, Mr past Shackleton's offices. Got round him all right. How do you do, Mr
Crimmins? First rate, sir. I was afraid you might be up in your other Crimmins? First rate, sir. I was afraid you might be up in your other
establishment in Pimlico. How are things going? Just keeping alive. establishment in Pimlico. How are things going? Just keeping alive.
Lovely weather we're having. Yes, indeed. Good for the country. Those Lovely weather we're having. Yes, indeed. Good for the country. Those
farmers are always grumbling. I'll just take a thimbleful of your best farmers are always grumbling. I'll just take a thimbleful of your best
gin, Mr Crimmins. A small gin, sir. Yes, sir. Terrible affair that gin, Mr Crimmins. A small gin, sir. Yes, sir. Terrible affair that
General Slocum explosion. Terrible, terrible! A thousand casualties. And General Slocum explosion. Terrible, terrible! A thousand casualties. And
heartrending scenes. Men trampling down women and children. Most brutal heartrending scenes. Men trampling down women and children. Most brutal
thing. What do they say was the cause? Spontaneous combustion. Most thing. What do they say was the cause? Spontaneous combustion. Most
scandalous revelation. Not a single lifeboat would float and the firehose scandalous revelation. Not a single lifeboat would float and the firehose
all burst. What I can't understand is how the inspectors ever allowed a all burst. What I can't understand is how the inspectors ever allowed a
boat like that ... Now, you're talking straight, Mr Crimmins. You know boat like that ... Now, you're talking straight, Mr Crimmins. You know
why? Palm oil. Is that a fact? Without a doubt. Well now, look at that. why? Palm oil. Is that a fact? Without a doubt. Well now, look at that.
And America they say is the land of the free. I thought we were bad here. And America they say is the land of the free. I thought we were bad here.
I smiled at him. AMERICA, I said quietly, just like that. WHAT IS IT? THE I smiled at him. AMERICA, I said quietly, just like that. WHAT IS IT? THE
SWEEPINGS OF EVERY COUNTRY INCLUDING OUR OWN. ISN'T THAT TRUE? That's a SWEEPINGS OF EVERY COUNTRY INCLUDING OUR OWN. ISN'T THAT TRUE? That's a
fact. fact.
Graft, my dear sir. Well, of course, where there's money going there's Graft, my dear sir. Well, of course, where there's money going there's
always someone to pick it up. always someone to pick it up.
Saw him looking at my frockcoat. Dress does it. Nothing like a dressy Saw him looking at my frockcoat. Dress does it. Nothing like a dressy
appearance. Bowls them over. appearance. Bowls them over.
--Hello, Simon, Father Cowley said. How are things? --Hello, Simon, Father Cowley said. How are things?
--Hello, Bob, old man, Mr Dedalus answered, stopping. --Hello, Bob, old man, Mr Dedalus answered, stopping.
North wall and sir John Rogerson's quay, with hulls and anchorchains, North wall and sir John Rogerson's quay, with hulls and anchorchains,
sailing westward, sailed by a skiff, a crumpled throwaway, rocked on the sailing westward, sailed by a skiff, a crumpled throwaway, rocked on the
ferrywash, Elijah is coming. ferrywash, Elijah is coming.
