says he. Takes the biscuit, and talking about bunions. Frailty, thy name says he. Takes the biscuit, and talking about bunions. Frailty, thy name
is SCEPTRE. is SCEPTRE.
So he went over to the biscuit tin Bob Doran left to see if there was So he went over to the biscuit tin Bob Doran left to see if there was
anything he could lift on the nod, the old cur after him backing his luck anything he could lift on the nod, the old cur after him backing his luck
with his mangy snout up. Old Mother Hubbard went to the cupboard. with his mangy snout up. Old Mother Hubbard went to the cupboard.
--Not there, my child, says he. --Not there, my child, says he.
--Keep your pecker up, says Joe. She'd have won the money only for the --Keep your pecker up, says Joe. She'd have won the money only for the
other dog. other dog.
And J. J. and the citizen arguing about law and history with Bloom And J. J. and the citizen arguing about law and history with Bloom
sticking in an odd word. sticking in an odd word.
--Some people, says Bloom, can see the mote in others' eyes but they can't --Some people, says Bloom, can see the mote in others' eyes but they can't
see the beam in their own. see the beam in their own.
--RAIMEIS, says the citizen. There's no-one as blind as the fellow that --RAIMEIS, says the citizen. There's no-one as blind as the fellow that
won't see, if you know what that means. Where are our missing won't see, if you know what that means. Where are our missing
twenty millions of Irish should be here today instead of four, twenty millions of Irish should be here today instead of four,
our lost tribes? And our potteries and textiles, the finest in our lost tribes? And our potteries and textiles, the finest in
the whole world! And our wool that was sold in Rome in the time the whole world! And our wool that was sold in Rome in the time
of Juvenal and our flax and our damask from the looms of Antrim of Juvenal and our flax and our damask from the looms of Antrim
and our Limerick lace, our tanneries and our white flint glass and our Limerick lace, our tanneries and our white flint glass
down there by Ballybough and our Huguenot poplin that we have since down there by Ballybough and our Huguenot poplin that we have since
Jacquard de Lyon and our woven silk and our Foxford tweeds and ivory Jacquard de Lyon and our woven silk and our Foxford tweeds and ivory
raised point from the Carmelite convent in New Ross, nothing like it in raised point from the Carmelite convent in New Ross, nothing like it in
the whole wide world. Where are the Greek merchants that came through the the whole wide world. Where are the Greek merchants that came through the
pillars of Hercules, the Gibraltar now grabbed by the foe of mankind, with pillars of Hercules, the Gibraltar now grabbed by the foe of mankind, with
gold and Tyrian purple to sell in Wexford at the fair of Carmen? Read gold and Tyrian purple to sell in Wexford at the fair of Carmen? Read
Tacitus and Ptolemy, even Giraldus Cambrensis. Wine, peltries, Tacitus and Ptolemy, even Giraldus Cambrensis. Wine, peltries,
Connemara marble, silver from Tipperary, second to none, our farfamed Connemara marble, silver from Tipperary, second to none, our farfamed
horses even today, the Irish hobbies, with king Philip of Spain offering horses even today, the Irish hobbies, with king Philip of Spain offering
They followed. They followed.
Offend me still. Speak on. Offend me still. Speak on.
Kind air defined the coigns of houses in Kildare street. No birds. Frail Kind air defined the coigns of houses in Kildare street. No birds. Frail
from the housetops two plumes of smoke ascended, pluming, and in a flaw from the housetops two plumes of smoke ascended, pluming, and in a flaw
of softness softly were blown. of softness softly were blown.
Cease to strive. Peace of the druid priests of Cymbeline: hierophantic: Cease to strive. Peace of the druid priests of Cymbeline: hierophantic:
from wide earth an altar. from wide earth an altar.
    LAUD WE THE GODS     LAUD WE THE GODS
    AND LET OUR CROOKED SMOKES CLIMB TO THEIR NOSTRILS     AND LET OUR CROOKED SMOKES CLIMB TO THEIR NOSTRILS
    FROM OUR BLESS'D ALTARS.     FROM OUR BLESS'D ALTARS.
    * * * * * * *     * * * * * * *
The superior, the very reverend John Conmee S.J. reset his smooth The superior, the very reverend John Conmee S.J. reset his smooth
watch in his interior pocket as he came down the presbytery steps. Five to watch in his interior pocket as he came down the presbytery steps. Five to
three. Just nice time to walk to Artane. What was that boy's name again? three. Just nice time to walk to Artane. What was that boy's name again?
Dignam. Yes. VERE DIGNUM ET IUSTUM EST. Brother Swan was the person to Dignam. Yes. VERE DIGNUM ET IUSTUM EST. Brother Swan was the person to
see. Mr Cunningham's letter. Yes. Oblige him, if possible. Good practical see. Mr Cunningham's letter. Yes. Oblige him, if possible. Good practical
catholic: useful at mission time. catholic: useful at mission time.
A onelegged sailor, swinging himself onward by lazy jerks of his A onelegged sailor, swinging himself onward by lazy jerks of his
crutches, growled some notes. He jerked short before the convent of the crutches, growled some notes. He jerked short before the convent of the
sisters of charity and held out a peaked cap for alms towards the very sisters of charity and held out a peaked cap for alms towards the very
reverend John Conmee S. J. Father Conmee blessed him in the sun for his reverend John Conmee S. J. Father Conmee blessed him in the sun for his
purse held, he knew, one silver crown. purse held, he knew, one silver crown.
Father Conmee crossed to Mountjoy square. He thought, but not for Father Conmee crossed to Mountjoy square. He thought, but not for
long, of soldiers and sailors, whose legs had been shot off by long, of soldiers and sailors, whose legs had been shot off by
cannonballs, ending their days in some pauper ward, and of cardinal cannonballs, ending their days in some pauper ward, and of cardinal
Wolsey's words: IF I HAD SERVED MY GOD AS I HAVE SERVED MY KING HE WOULD Wolsey's words: IF I HAD SERVED MY GOD AS I HAVE SERVED MY KING HE WOULD
NOT HAVE ABANDONED ME IN MY OLD DAYS. He walked by the treeshade of NOT HAVE ABANDONED ME IN MY OLD DAYS. He walked by the treeshade of
sunnywinking leaves: and towards him came the wife of Mr David Sheehy sunnywinking leaves: and towards him came the wife of Mr David Sheehy
M.P. M.P.
--Very well, indeed, father. And you, father? --Very well, indeed, father. And you, father?
Father Conmee was wonderfully well indeed. He would go to Buxton Father Conmee was wonderfully well indeed. He would go to Buxton
probably for the waters. And her boys, were they getting on well at probably for the waters. And her boys, were they getting on well at
Belvedere? Was that so? Father Conmee was very glad indeed to hear that. Belvedere? Was that so? Father Conmee was very glad indeed to hear that.
And Mr Sheehy himself? Still in London. The house was still sitting, to be And Mr Sheehy himself? Still in London. The house was still sitting, to be
sure it was. Beautiful weather it was, delightful indeed. Yes, it was very sure it was. Beautiful weather it was, delightful indeed. Yes, it was very
probable that Father Bernard Vaughan would come again to preach. O, probable that Father Bernard Vaughan would come again to preach. O,
yes: a very great success. A wonderful man really. yes: a very great success. A wonderful man really.
Father Conmee was very glad to see the wife of Mr David Sheehy Father Conmee was very glad to see the wife of Mr David Sheehy
M.P. Iooking so well and he begged to be remembered to Mr David Sheehy M.P. Iooking so well and he begged to be remembered to Mr David Sheehy
M.P. Yes, he would certainly call. M.P. Yes, he would certainly call.
--Good afternoon, Mrs Sheehy. --Good afternoon, Mrs Sheehy.
Father Conmee doffed his silk hat and smiled, as he took leave, at the Father Conmee doffed his silk hat and smiled, as he took leave, at the
jet beads of her mantilla inkshining in the sun. And smiled yet again, in jet beads of her mantilla inkshining in the sun. And smiled yet again, in
going. He had cleaned his teeth, he knew, with arecanut paste. going. He had cleaned his teeth, he knew, with arecanut paste.
Father Conmee walked and, walking, smiled for he thought on Father Father Conmee walked and, walking, smiled for he thought on Father
Bernard Vaughan's droll eyes and cockney voice. Bernard Vaughan's droll eyes and cockney voice.
--Pilate! Wy don't you old back that owlin mob? --Pilate! Wy don't you old back that owlin mob?
A zealous man, however. Really he was. And really did great good in. A zealous man, however. Really he was. And really did great good in.
his way. Beyond a doubt. He loved Ireland, he said, and he loved the his way. Beyond a doubt. He loved Ireland, he said, and he loved the
Irish. Of good family too would one think it? Welsh, were they not? Irish. Of good family too would one think it? Welsh, were they not?
O, lest he forget. That letter to father provincial. O, lest he forget. That letter to father provincial.
Father Conmee stopped three little schoolboys at the corner of Father Conmee stopped three little schoolboys at the corner of
Mountjoy square. Yes: they were from Belvedere. The little house. Aha. Mountjoy square. Yes: they were from Belvedere. The little house. Aha.
And were they good boys at school? O. That was very good now. And what And were they good boys at school? O. That was very good now. And what
was his name? Jack Sohan. And his name? Ger. Gallaher. And the other was his name? Jack Sohan. And his name? Ger. Gallaher. And the other
little man? His name was Brunny Lynam. O, that was a very nice name to little man? His name was Brunny Lynam. O, that was a very nice name to
have. have.
Father Conmee gave a letter from his breast to Master Brunny Lynam Father Conmee gave a letter from his breast to Master Brunny Lynam
and pointed to the red pillarbox at the corner of Fitzgibbon street. and pointed to the red pillarbox at the corner of Fitzgibbon street.
--But mind you don't post yourself into the box, little man, he said. --But mind you don't post yourself into the box, little man, he said.
The boys sixeyed Father Conmee and laughed: The boys sixeyed Father Conmee and laughed:
--O, sir. --O, sir.
--Well, let me see if you can post a letter, Father Conmee said. --Well, let me see if you can post a letter, Father Conmee said.
Master Brunny Lynam ran across the road and put Father Conmee's Master Brunny Lynam ran across the road and put Father Conmee's
letter to father provincial into the mouth of the bright red letterbox. letter to father provincial into the mouth of the bright red letterbox.
Father Conmee smiled and nodded and smiled and walked along Mountjoy Father Conmee smiled and nodded and smiled and walked along Mountjoy
square east. square east.
Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c, in silk hat, slate Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c, in silk hat, slate
frockcoat with silk facings, white kerchief tie, tight lavender trousers, frockcoat with silk facings, white kerchief tie, tight lavender trousers,
canary gloves and pointed patent boots, walking with grave deportment canary gloves and pointed patent boots, walking with grave deportment
most respectfully took the curbstone as he passed lady Maxwell at the most respectfully took the curbstone as he passed lady Maxwell at the
corner of Dignam's court. corner of Dignam's court.
Was that not Mrs M'Guinness? Was that not Mrs M'Guinness?
Mrs M'Guinness, stately, silverhaired, bowed to Father Conmee from Mrs M'Guinness, stately, silverhaired, bowed to Father Conmee from
the farther footpath along which she sailed. And Father Conmee smiled and the farther footpath along which she sailed. And Father Conmee smiled and
saluted. How did she do? saluted. How did she do?
A fine carriage she had. Like Mary, queen of Scots, something. And to A fine carriage she had. Like Mary, queen of Scots, something. And to
think that she was a pawnbroker! Well, now! Such a ... what should he think that she was a pawnbroker! Well, now! Such a ... what should he
say? ... such a queenly mien. say? ... such a queenly mien.
Father Conmee walked down Great Charles street and glanced at the Father Conmee walked down Great Charles street and glanced at the
shutup free church on his left. The reverend T. R. Greene B.A. will (D.V.) shutup free church on his left. The reverend T. R. Greene B.A. will (D.V.)
speak. The incumbent they called him. He felt it incumbent on him to say a speak. The incumbent they called him. He felt it incumbent on him to say a
few words. But one should be charitable. Invincible ignorance. They acted few words. But one should be charitable. Invincible ignorance. They acted
according to their lights. according to their lights.
Father Conmee turned the corner and walked along the North Father Conmee turned the corner and walked along the North
Circular road. It was a wonder that there was not a tramline in such an Circular road. It was a wonder that there was not a tramline in such an
important thoroughfare. Surely, there ought to be. important thoroughfare. Surely, there ought to be.
A band of satchelled schoolboys crossed from Richmond street. All A band of satchelled schoolboys crossed from Richmond street. All
raised untidy caps. Father Conmee greeted them more than once benignly. raised untidy caps. Father Conmee greeted them more than once benignly.
Christian brother boys. Christian brother boys.
Father Conmee smelt incense on his right hand as he walked. Saint Father Conmee smelt incense on his right hand as he walked. Saint
Joseph's church, Portland row. For aged and virtuous females. Father Joseph's church, Portland row. For aged and virtuous females. Father
Conmee raised his hat to the Blessed Sacrament. Virtuous: but occasionally Conmee raised his hat to the Blessed Sacrament. Virtuous: but occasionally
they were also badtempered. they were also badtempered.
Near Aldborough house Father Conmee thought of that spendthrift Near Aldborough house Father Conmee thought of that spendthrift
nobleman. And now it was an office or something. nobleman. And now it was an office or something.
Father Conmee began to walk along the North Strand road and was Father Conmee began to walk along the North Strand road and was
saluted by Mr William Gallagher who stood in the doorway of his shop. saluted by Mr William Gallagher who stood in the doorway of his shop.
Father Conmee saluted Mr William Gallagher and perceived the odours Father Conmee saluted Mr William Gallagher and perceived the odours
that came from baconflitches and ample cools of butter. He passed that came from baconflitches and ample cools of butter. He passed
Grogan's the Tobacconist against which newsboards leaned and told of a Grogan's the Tobacconist against which newsboards leaned and told of a
dreadful catastrophe in New York. In America those things were dreadful catastrophe in New York. In America those things were
continually happening. Unfortunate people to die like that, unprepared. continually happening. Unfortunate people to die like that, unprepared.
Still, an act of perfect contrition. Still, an act of perfect contrition.
Father Conmee went by Daniel Bergin's publichouse against the Father Conmee went by Daniel Bergin's publichouse against the
window of which two unlabouring men lounged. They saluted him and window of which two unlabouring men lounged. They saluted him and
were saluted. were saluted.
Father Conmee passed H. J. O'Neill's funeral establishment where Father Conmee passed H. J. O'Neill's funeral establishment where
Corny Kelleher totted figures in the daybook while he chewed a blade of Corny Kelleher totted figures in the daybook while he chewed a blade of
hay. A constable on his beat saluted Father Conmee and Father Conmee hay. A constable on his beat saluted Father Conmee and Father Conmee
saluted the constable. In Youkstetter's, the porkbutcher's, Father Conmee saluted the constable. In Youkstetter's, the porkbutcher's, Father Conmee
observed pig's puddings, white and black and red, lie neatly curled in observed pig's puddings, white and black and red, lie neatly curled in
tubes. tubes.
Moored under the trees of Charleville Mall Father Conmee saw a Moored under the trees of Charleville Mall Father Conmee saw a
turfbarge, a towhorse with pendent head, a bargeman with a hat of dirty turfbarge, a towhorse with pendent head, a bargeman with a hat of dirty
straw seated amidships, smoking and staring at a branch of poplar above straw seated amidships, smoking and staring at a branch of poplar above
him. It was idyllic: and Father Conmee reflected on the providence of the him. It was idyllic: and Father Conmee reflected on the providence of the
Creator who had made turf to be in bogs whence men might dig it out and Creator who had made turf to be in bogs whence men might dig it out and
bring it to town and hamlet to make fires in the houses of poor people. bring it to town and hamlet to make fires in the houses of poor people.
On Newcomen bridge the very reverend John Conmee S.J. of saint On Newcomen bridge the very reverend John Conmee S.J. of saint
Francis Xavier's church, upper Gardiner street, stepped on to an outward Francis Xavier's church, upper Gardiner street, stepped on to an outward
bound tram. bound tram.
Off an inward bound tram stepped the reverend Nicholas Dudley Off an inward bound tram stepped the reverend Nicholas Dudley
C. C. of saint Agatha's church, north William street, on to Newcomen C. C. of saint Agatha's church, north William street, on to Newcomen
bridge. bridge.
At Newcomen bridge Father Conmee stepped into an outward bound At Newcomen bridge Father Conmee stepped into an outward bound
tram for he disliked to traverse on foot the dingy way past Mud Island. tram for he disliked to traverse on foot the dingy way past Mud Island.
Father Conmee sat in a corner of the tramcar, a blue ticket tucked Father Conmee sat in a corner of the tramcar, a blue ticket tucked
with care in the eye of one plump kid glove, while four shillings, a with care in the eye of one plump kid glove, while four shillings, a
sixpence and five pennies chuted from his other plump glovepalm into his sixpence and five pennies chuted from his other plump glovepalm into his
purse. Passing the ivy church he reflected that the ticket inspector purse. Passing the ivy church he reflected that the ticket inspector
usually made his visit when one had carelessly thrown away the ticket. usually made his visit when one had carelessly thrown away the ticket.
The solemnity of the occupants of the car seemed to Father Conmee The solemnity of the occupants of the car seemed to Father Conmee
excessive for a journey so short and cheap. Father Conmee liked cheerful excessive for a journey so short and cheap. Father Conmee liked cheerful
decorum. decorum.
It was a peaceful day. The gentleman with the glasses opposite Father It was a peaceful day. The gentleman with the glasses opposite Father
Conmee had finished explaining and looked down. His wife, Father Conmee had finished explaining and looked down. His wife, Father
Conmee supposed. A tiny yawn opened the mouth of the wife of the gentleman Conmee supposed. A tiny yawn opened the mouth of the wife of the gentleman
with the glasses. She raised her small gloved fist, yawned ever so gently, with the glasses. She raised her small gloved fist, yawned ever so gently,
tiptapping  her small gloved fist on her opening mouth and smiled tinily, tiptapping  her small gloved fist on her opening mouth and smiled tinily,
sweetly. sweetly.
Father Conmee perceived her perfume in the car. He perceived also Father Conmee perceived her perfume in the car. He perceived also
that the awkward man at the other side of her was sitting on the edge of that the awkward man at the other side of her was sitting on the edge of
the seat. the seat.
Father Conmee at the altarrails placed the host with difficulty in the Father Conmee at the altarrails placed the host with difficulty in the
mouth of the awkward old man who had the shaky head. mouth of the awkward old man who had the shaky head.
At Annesley bridge the tram halted and, when it was about to go, an At Annesley bridge the tram halted and, when it was about to go, an
old woman rose suddenly from her place to alight. The conductor pulled old woman rose suddenly from her place to alight. The conductor pulled
the bellstrap to stay the car for her. She passed out with her basket and the bellstrap to stay the car for her. She passed out with her basket and
a marketnet: and Father Conmee saw the conductor help her and net and a marketnet: and Father Conmee saw the conductor help her and net and
basket down: and Father Conmee thought that, as she had nearly passed basket down: and Father Conmee thought that, as she had nearly passed
the end of the penny fare, she was one of those good souls who had always the end of the penny fare, she was one of those good souls who had always
to be told twice BLESS YOU, MY CHILD, that they have been absolved, PRAY to be told twice BLESS YOU, MY CHILD, that they have been absolved, PRAY
FOR ME. But they had so many worries in life, so many cares, poor FOR ME. But they had so many worries in life, so many cares, poor
creatures. creatures.
From the hoardings Mr Eugene Stratton grimaced with thick niggerlips at From the hoardings Mr Eugene Stratton grimaced with thick niggerlips at
Father Conmee. Father Conmee.
Father Conmee thought of the souls of black and brown and yellow Father Conmee thought of the souls of black and brown and yellow
men and of his sermon on saint Peter Claver S.J. and the African mission men and of his sermon on saint Peter Claver S.J. and the African mission
and of the propagation of the faith and of the millions of black and brown and of the propagation of the faith and of the millions of black and brown
and yellow souls that had not received the baptism of water when their last and yellow souls that had not received the baptism of water when their last
hour came like a thief in the night. That book by the Belgian jesuit, LE hour came like a thief in the night. That book by the Belgian jesuit, LE
NOMBRE DES ELUS, seemed to Father Conmee a reasonable plea. Those were NOMBRE DES ELUS, seemed to Father Conmee a reasonable plea. Those were
millions of human souls created by God in His Own likeness to whom the millions of human souls created by God in His Own likeness to whom the
faith had not (D.V.) been brought. But they were God's souls, created by faith had not (D.V.) been brought. But they were God's souls, created by
God. It seemed to Father Conmee a pity that they should all be lost, a God. It seemed to Father Conmee a pity that they should all be lost, a
waste, if one might say. waste, if one might say.
At the Howth road stop Father Conmee alighted, was saluted by the At the Howth road stop Father Conmee alighted, was saluted by the
conductor and saluted in his turn. conductor and saluted in his turn.
The Malahide road was quiet. It pleased Father Conmee, road and The Malahide road was quiet. It pleased Father Conmee, road and
name. The joybells were ringing in gay Malahide. Lord Talbot de Malahide, name. The joybells were ringing in gay Malahide. Lord Talbot de Malahide,
immediate hereditary lord admiral of Malahide and the seas adjoining. immediate hereditary lord admiral of Malahide and the seas adjoining.
Then came the call to arms and she was maid, wife and widow in one day. Then came the call to arms and she was maid, wife and widow in one day.
Those were old worldish days, loyal times in joyous townlands, old times Those were old worldish days, loyal times in joyous townlands, old times
in the barony. in the barony.
Father Conmee, walking, thought of his little book OLD TIMES IN THE Father Conmee, walking, thought of his little book OLD TIMES IN THE
BARONY and of the book that might be written about jesuit houses and of BARONY and of the book that might be written about jesuit houses and of
Mary Rochfort, daughter of lord Molesworth, first countess of Belvedere. Mary Rochfort, daughter of lord Molesworth, first countess of Belvedere.
A listless lady, no more young, walked alone the shore of lough A listless lady, no more young, walked alone the shore of lough
Ennel, Mary, first countess of Belvedere, listlessly walking in the Ennel, Mary, first countess of Belvedere, listlessly walking in the
evening, not startled when an otter plunged. Who could know the truth? evening, not startled when an otter plunged. Who could know the truth?
Not the jealous lord Belvedere and not her confessor if she had not Not the jealous lord Belvedere and not her confessor if she had not
committed adultery fully, EIACULATIO SEMINIS INTER VAS NATURALE MULIERIS, committed adultery fully, EIACULATIO SEMINIS INTER VAS NATURALE MULIERIS,
with her husband's brother? She would half confess if she had not all with her husband's brother? She would half confess if she had not all
sinned as women did. Only God knew and she and he, her husband's brother. sinned as women did. Only God knew and she and he, her husband's brother.
Father Conmee thought of that tyrannous incontinence, needed Father Conmee thought of that tyrannous incontinence, needed
however for man's race on earth, and of the ways of God which were not however for man's race on earth, and of the ways of God which were not
our ways. our ways.
Don John Conmee walked and moved in times of yore. He was Don John Conmee walked and moved in times of yore. He was
humane and honoured there. He bore in mind secrets confessed and he humane and honoured there. He bore in mind secrets confessed and he
smiled at smiling noble faces in a beeswaxed drawingroom, ceiled with full smiled at smiling noble faces in a beeswaxed drawingroom, ceiled with full
fruit clusters. And the hands of a bride and of a bridegroom, noble to fruit clusters. And the hands of a bride and of a bridegroom, noble to
noble, were impalmed by Don John Conmee. noble, were impalmed by Don John Conmee.
It was a charming day. It was a charming day.
The lychgate of a field showed Father Conmee breadths of cabbages, The lychgate of a field showed Father Conmee breadths of cabbages,
curtseying to him with ample underleaves. The sky showed him a flock of curtseying to him with ample underleaves. The sky showed him a flock of
small white clouds going slowly down the wind. MOUTONNER, the French small white clouds going slowly down the wind. MOUTONNER, the French
said. A just and homely word. said. A just and homely word.
Father Conmee, reading his office, watched a flock of muttoning Father Conmee, reading his office, watched a flock of muttoning
clouds over Rathcoffey. His thinsocked ankles were tickled by the stubble clouds over Rathcoffey. His thinsocked ankles were tickled by the stubble
of Clongowes field. He walked there, reading in the evening, and heard the of Clongowes field. He walked there, reading in the evening, and heard the
cries of the boys' lines at their play, young cries in the quiet evening. cries of the boys' lines at their play, young cries in the quiet evening.
He was their rector: his reign was mild. He was their rector: his reign was mild.
Father Conmee drew off his gloves and took his rededged breviary out. Father Conmee drew off his gloves and took his rededged breviary out.
An ivory bookmark told him the page. An ivory bookmark told him the page.
Nones. He should have read that before lunch. But lady Maxwell had come. Nones. He should have read that before lunch. But lady Maxwell had come.
Father Conmee read in secret PATER and AVE and crossed his breast. Father Conmee read in secret PATER and AVE and crossed his breast.
DEUS IN ADIUTORIUM. DEUS IN ADIUTORIUM.
He walked calmly and read mutely the nones, walking and reading till He walked calmly and read mutely the nones, walking and reading till
he came to RES in BEATI IMMACULATI: PRINCIPIUM VERBORUM TUORUM VERITAS: he came to RES in BEATI IMMACULATI: PRINCIPIUM VERBORUM TUORUM VERITAS:
IN ETERNUM OMNIA INDICIA IUSTITIAE TUAE. IN ETERNUM OMNIA INDICIA IUSTITIAE TUAE.
A flushed young man came from a gap of a hedge and after him came A flushed young man came from a gap of a hedge and after him came
a young woman with wild nodding daisies in her hand. The young man a young woman with wild nodding daisies in her hand. The young man
raised his cap abruptly: the young woman abruptly bent and with slow care raised his cap abruptly: the young woman abruptly bent and with slow care
detached from her light skirt a clinging twig. detached from her light skirt a clinging twig.
Father Conmee blessed both gravely and turned a thin page of his Father Conmee blessed both gravely and turned a thin page of his
breviary. SIN: PRINCIPES PERSECUTI SUNT ME GRATIS: ET A VERBIS TUIS breviary. SIN: PRINCIPES PERSECUTI SUNT ME GRATIS: ET A VERBIS TUIS
FORMIDAVIT COR MEUM. FORMIDAVIT COR MEUM.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
Corny Kelleher closed his long daybook and glanced with his Corny Kelleher closed his long daybook and glanced with his
drooping eye at a pine coffinlid sentried in a corner. He pulled himself drooping eye at a pine coffinlid sentried in a corner. He pulled himself
erect, went to it and, spinning it on its axle, viewed its shape and brass erect, went to it and, spinning it on its axle, viewed its shape and brass
furnishings. Chewing his blade of hay he laid the coffinlid by and came to furnishings. Chewing his blade of hay he laid the coffinlid by and came to
the doorway. There he tilted his hatbrim to give shade to his eyes and the doorway. There he tilted his hatbrim to give shade to his eyes and
leaned against the doorcase, looking idly out. leaned against the doorcase, looking idly out.
Father John Conmee stepped into the Dollymount tram on Father John Conmee stepped into the Dollymount tram on
Newcomen bridge. Newcomen bridge.
Corny Kelleher locked his largefooted boots and gazed, his hat Corny Kelleher locked his largefooted boots and gazed, his hat
downtilted, chewing his blade of hay. downtilted, chewing his blade of hay.
Constable 57C, on his beat, stood to pass the time of day. Constable 57C, on his beat, stood to pass the time of day.
--That's a fine day, Mr Kelleher. --That's a fine day, Mr Kelleher.
--Ay, Corny Kelleher said. --Ay, Corny Kelleher said.
--It's very close, the constable said. --It's very close, the constable said.
Corny Kelleher sped a silent jet of hayjuice arching from his mouth Corny Kelleher sped a silent jet of hayjuice arching from his mouth
while a generous white arm from a window in Eccles street flung forth a while a generous white arm from a window in Eccles street flung forth a
coin. coin.
--What's the best news? he asked. --What's the best news? he asked.
--I seen that particular party last evening, the constable said with bated --I seen that particular party last evening, the constable said with bated
breath. breath.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
A onelegged sailor crutched himself round MacConnell's corner, A onelegged sailor crutched himself round MacConnell's corner,
skirting Rabaiotti's icecream car, and jerked himself up Eccles street. skirting Rabaiotti's icecream car, and jerked himself up Eccles street.
Towards Larry O'Rourke, in shirtsleeves in his doorway, he growled Towards Larry O'Rourke, in shirtsleeves in his doorway, he growled
unamiably: unamiably:
--FOR ENGLAND ... --FOR ENGLAND ...
He swung himself violently forward past Katey and Boody Dedalus, He swung himself violently forward past Katey and Boody Dedalus,
halted and growled: halted and growled:
--HOME AND BEAUTY. --HOME AND BEAUTY.
J. J. O'Molloy's white careworn face was told that Mr Lambert was J. J. O'Molloy's white careworn face was told that Mr Lambert was
in the warehouse with a visitor. in the warehouse with a visitor.
A stout lady stopped, took a copper coin from her purse and dropped A stout lady stopped, took a copper coin from her purse and dropped
it into the cap held out to her. The sailor grumbled thanks, glanced it into the cap held out to her. The sailor grumbled thanks, glanced
sourly at the unheeding windows, sank his head and swung himself forward sourly at the unheeding windows, sank his head and swung himself forward
four strides. four strides.
He halted and growled angrily: He halted and growled angrily:
--FOR ENGLAND ... --FOR ENGLAND ...
Two barefoot urchins, sucking long liquorice laces, halted near him, Two barefoot urchins, sucking long liquorice laces, halted near him,
gaping at his stump with their yellowslobbered mouths. gaping at his stump with their yellowslobbered mouths.
He swung himself forward in vigorous jerks, halted, lifted his head He swung himself forward in vigorous jerks, halted, lifted his head
towards a window and bayed deeply: towards a window and bayed deeply:
--HOME AND BEAUTY. --HOME AND BEAUTY.
The gay sweet chirping whistling within went on a bar or two, ceased. The gay sweet chirping whistling within went on a bar or two, ceased.
The blind of the window was drawn aside. A card UNFURNISHED APARTMENTS The blind of the window was drawn aside. A card UNFURNISHED APARTMENTS
slipped from the sash and fell. A plump bare generous arm shone, was seen, slipped from the sash and fell. A plump bare generous arm shone, was seen,
held forth from a white petticoatbodice and taut shiftstraps. A woman's held forth from a white petticoatbodice and taut shiftstraps. A woman's
hand flung forth a coin over the area railings. It fell on the path. hand flung forth a coin over the area railings. It fell on the path.
One of the urchins ran to it, picked it up and dropped it into the One of the urchins ran to it, picked it up and dropped it into the
minstrel's cap, saying: minstrel's cap, saying:
--There, sir. --There, sir.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
Katey and Boody Dedalus shoved in the door of the closesteaming Katey and Boody Dedalus shoved in the door of the closesteaming
kitchen. kitchen.
--Did you put in the books? Boody asked. --Did you put in the books? Boody asked.
Maggy at the range rammed down a greyish mass beneath bubbling Maggy at the range rammed down a greyish mass beneath bubbling
suds twice with her potstick and wiped her brow. suds twice with her potstick and wiped her brow.
--They wouldn't give anything on them, she said. --They wouldn't give anything on them, she said.
Father Conmee walked through Clongowes fields, his thinsocked Father Conmee walked through Clongowes fields, his thinsocked
ankles tickled by stubble. ankles tickled by stubble.
--Where did you try? Boody asked. --Where did you try? Boody asked.
power, Pat. Coarse red: fun for drunkards: guffaw and smoke. Take off that power, Pat. Coarse red: fun for drunkards: guffaw and smoke. Take off that
white hat. His parboiled eyes. Where is he now? Beggar somewhere. The harp white hat. His parboiled eyes. Where is he now? Beggar somewhere. The harp
that once did starve us all. that once did starve us all.
I was happier then. Or was that I? Or am I now I? Twentyeight I was. I was happier then. Or was that I? Or am I now I? Twentyeight I was.
She twentythree. When we left Lombard street west something changed. She twentythree. When we left Lombard street west something changed.
Could never like it again after Rudy. Can't bring back time. Like holding Could never like it again after Rudy. Can't bring back time. Like holding
water in your hand. Would you go back to then? Just beginning then. water in your hand. Would you go back to then? Just beginning then.
Would you? Are you not happy in your home you poor little naughty boy? Would you? Are you not happy in your home you poor little naughty boy?
Wants to sew on buttons for me. I must answer. Write it in the library. Wants to sew on buttons for me. I must answer. Write it in the library.
Grafton street gay with housed awnings lured his senses. Muslin Grafton street gay with housed awnings lured his senses. Muslin
prints, silkdames and dowagers, jingle of harnesses, hoofthuds lowringing prints, silkdames and dowagers, jingle of harnesses, hoofthuds lowringing
in the baking causeway. Thick feet that woman has in the white stockings. in the baking causeway. Thick feet that woman has in the white stockings.
Hope the rain mucks them up on her. Countrybred chawbacon. All the beef Hope the rain mucks them up on her. Countrybred chawbacon. All the beef
to the heels were in. Always gives a woman clumsy feet. Molly looks out of to the heels were in. Always gives a woman clumsy feet. Molly looks out of
plumb. plumb.
He passed, dallying, the windows of Brown Thomas, silk mercers. He passed, dallying, the windows of Brown Thomas, silk mercers.
Cascades of ribbons. Flimsy China silks. A tilted urn poured from its Cascades of ribbons. Flimsy China silks. A tilted urn poured from its
mouth a flood of bloodhued poplin: lustrous blood. The huguenots brought mouth a flood of bloodhued poplin: lustrous blood. The huguenots brought
that here. LA CAUSA E SANTA! Tara Tara. Great chorus that. Taree tara. that here. LA CAUSA E SANTA! Tara Tara. Great chorus that. Taree tara.
Must be washed in rainwater. Meyerbeer. Tara: bom bom bom. Must be washed in rainwater. Meyerbeer. Tara: bom bom bom.
Pincushions. I'm a long time threatening to buy one. Sticking them all Pincushions. I'm a long time threatening to buy one. Sticking them all
over the place. Needles in window curtains. over the place. Needles in window curtains.
He bared slightly his left forearm. Scrape: nearly gone. Not today He bared slightly his left forearm. Scrape: nearly gone. Not today
anyhow. Must go back for that lotion. For her birthday perhaps. anyhow. Must go back for that lotion. For her birthday perhaps.
Junejulyaugseptember eighth. Nearly three months off. Then she mightn't Junejulyaugseptember eighth. Nearly three months off. Then she mightn't
like it. Women won't pick up pins. Say it cuts lo. like it. Women won't pick up pins. Say it cuts lo.
Gleaming silks, petticoats on slim brass rails, rays of flat silk Gleaming silks, petticoats on slim brass rails, rays of flat silk
stockings. stockings.
Useless to go back. Had to be. Tell me all. Useless to go back. Had to be. Tell me all.
High voices. Sunwarm silk. Jingling harnesses. All for a woman, High voices. Sunwarm silk. Jingling harnesses. All for a woman,
home and houses, silkwebs, silver, rich fruits spicy from Jaffa. Agendath home and houses, silkwebs, silver, rich fruits spicy from Jaffa. Agendath
Netaim. Wealth of the world. Netaim. Wealth of the world.
A warm human plumpness settled down on his brain. His brain A warm human plumpness settled down on his brain. His brain
yielded. Perfume of embraces all him assailed. With hungered flesh yielded. Perfume of embraces all him assailed. With hungered flesh
obscurely, he mutely craved to adore. obscurely, he mutely craved to adore.
Duke street. Here we are. Must eat. The Burton. Feel better then. Duke street. Here we are. Must eat. The Burton. Feel better then.
He turned Combridge's corner, still pursued. Jingling, hoofthuds. He turned Combridge's corner, still pursued. Jingling, hoofthuds.
Perfumed bodies, warm, full. All kissed, yielded: in deep summer fields, Perfumed bodies, warm, full. All kissed, yielded: in deep summer fields,
tangled pressed grass, in trickling hallways of tenements, along sofas, tangled pressed grass, in trickling hallways of tenements, along sofas,
creaking beds. creaking beds.
--Jack, love! --Jack, love!
--Darling! --Darling!
--Kiss me, Reggy! --Kiss me, Reggy!
--My boy! --My boy!
--Love! --Love!
His heart astir he pushed in the door of the Burton restaurant. Stink His heart astir he pushed in the door of the Burton restaurant. Stink
gripped his trembling breath: pungent meatjuice, slush of greens. See the gripped his trembling breath: pungent meatjuice, slush of greens. See the
animals feed. animals feed.
Men, men, men. Men, men, men.
Perched on high stools by the bar, hats shoved back, at the tables Perched on high stools by the bar, hats shoved back, at the tables
calling for more bread no charge, swilling, wolfing gobfuls of sloppy calling for more bread no charge, swilling, wolfing gobfuls of sloppy
food, their eyes bulging, wiping wetted moustaches. A pallid suetfaced food, their eyes bulging, wiping wetted moustaches. A pallid suetfaced
young man polished his tumbler knife fork and spoon with his napkin. New young man polished his tumbler knife fork and spoon with his napkin. New
set of microbes. A man with an infant's saucestained napkin tucked round set of microbes. A man with an infant's saucestained napkin tucked round
him shovelled gurgling soup down his gullet. A man spitting back on his him shovelled gurgling soup down his gullet. A man spitting back on his
plate: halfmasticated gristle: gums: no teeth to chewchewchew it. Chump plate: halfmasticated gristle: gums: no teeth to chewchewchew it. Chump
chop from the grill. Bolting to get it over. Sad booser's eyes. Bitten off chop from the grill. Bolting to get it over. Sad booser's eyes. Bitten off
more than he can chew. Am I like that? See ourselves as others see us. more than he can chew. Am I like that? See ourselves as others see us.
Hungry man is an angry man. Working tooth and jaw. Don't! O! A bone! That Hungry man is an angry man. Working tooth and jaw. Don't! O! A bone! That
last pagan king of Ireland Cormac in the schoolpoem choked himself at last pagan king of Ireland Cormac in the schoolpoem choked himself at
Sletty southward of the Boyne. Wonder what he was eating. Something Sletty southward of the Boyne. Wonder what he was eating. Something
galoptious. Saint Patrick converted him to Christianity. Couldn't swallow galoptious. Saint Patrick converted him to Christianity. Couldn't swallow
it all however. it all however.
--Roast beef and cabbage. --Roast beef and cabbage.
--One stew. --One stew.
Smells of men. Spaton sawdust, sweetish warmish cigarette smoke, reek of Smells of men. Spaton sawdust, sweetish warmish cigarette smoke, reek of
plug, spilt beer, men's beery piss, the stale of ferment. plug, spilt beer, men's beery piss, the stale of ferment.
His gorge rose. His gorge rose.
Couldn't eat a morsel here. Fellow sharpening knife and fork to eat Couldn't eat a morsel here. Fellow sharpening knife and fork to eat
all before him, old chap picking his tootles. Slight spasm, full, chewing all before him, old chap picking his tootles. Slight spasm, full, chewing
the cud. Before and after. Grace after meals. Look on this picture then on the cud. Before and after. Grace after meals. Look on this picture then on
that. Scoffing up stewgravy with sopping sippets of bread. Lick it off the that. Scoffing up stewgravy with sopping sippets of bread. Lick it off the
plate, man! Get out of this. plate, man! Get out of this.
He gazed round the stooled and tabled eaters, tightening the wings of He gazed round the stooled and tabled eaters, tightening the wings of
his nose. his nose.
--Two stouts here. --Two stouts here.
--One corned and cabbage. --One corned and cabbage.
That fellow ramming a knifeful of cabbage down as if his life That fellow ramming a knifeful of cabbage down as if his life
depended on it. Good stroke. Give me the fidgets to look. Safer to eat depended on it. Good stroke. Give me the fidgets to look. Safer to eat
from his three hands. Tear it limb from limb. Second nature to him. Born from his three hands. Tear it limb from limb. Second nature to him. Born
with a silver knife in his mouth. That's witty, I think. Or no. Silver with a silver knife in his mouth. That's witty, I think. Or no. Silver
means born rich. Born with a knife. But then the allusion is lost. means born rich. Born with a knife. But then the allusion is lost.
An illgirt server gathered sticky clattering plates. Rock, the head An illgirt server gathered sticky clattering plates. Rock, the head
bailiff, standing at the bar blew the foamy crown from his tankard. Well bailiff, standing at the bar blew the foamy crown from his tankard. Well
up: it splashed yellow near his boot. A diner, knife and fork upright, up: it splashed yellow near his boot. A diner, knife and fork upright,
elbows on table, ready for a second helping stared towards the foodlift elbows on table, ready for a second helping stared towards the foodlift
across his stained square of newspaper. Other chap telling him something across his stained square of newspaper. Other chap telling him something
with his mouth full. Sympathetic listener. Table talk. I munched hum un with his mouth full. Sympathetic listener. Table talk. I munched hum un
thu Unchster Bunk un Munchday. Ha? Did you, faith? thu Unchster Bunk un Munchday. Ha? Did you, faith?
Mr Bloom raised two fingers doubtfully to his lips. His eyes said: Mr Bloom raised two fingers doubtfully to his lips. His eyes said:
--Not here. Don't see him. --Not here. Don't see him.
Out. I hate dirty eaters. Out. I hate dirty eaters.
He backed towards the door. Get a light snack in Davy Byrne's. Stopgap. He backed towards the door. Get a light snack in Davy Byrne's. Stopgap.
Keep me going. Had a good breakfast. Keep me going. Had a good breakfast.
--Roast and mashed here. --Roast and mashed here.
--Pint of stout. --Pint of stout.
Every fellow for his own, tooth and nail. Gulp. Grub. Gulp. Gobstuff. Every fellow for his own, tooth and nail. Gulp. Grub. Gulp. Gobstuff.
He came out into clearer air and turned back towards Grafton street. He came out into clearer air and turned back towards Grafton street.
Eat or be eaten. Kill! Kill! Eat or be eaten. Kill! Kill!
Suppose that communal kitchen years to come perhaps. All trotting Suppose that communal kitchen years to come perhaps. All trotting
down with porringers and tommycans to be filled. Devour contents in the down with porringers and tommycans to be filled. Devour contents in the
street. John Howard Parnell example the provost of Trinity every mother's street. John Howard Parnell example the provost of Trinity every mother's
son don't talk of your provosts and provost of Trinity women and children son don't talk of your provosts and provost of Trinity women and children
cabmen priests parsons fieldmarshals archbishops. From Ailesbury road, cabmen priests parsons fieldmarshals archbishops. From Ailesbury road,
Clyde road, artisans' dwellings, north Dublin union, lord mayor in his Clyde road, artisans' dwellings, north Dublin union, lord mayor in his
gingerbread coach, old queen in a bathchair. My plate's empty. After you gingerbread coach, old queen in a bathchair. My plate's empty. After you
with our incorporated drinkingcup. Like sir Philip Crampton's fountain. with our incorporated drinkingcup. Like sir Philip Crampton's fountain.
Rub off the microbes with your handkerchief. Next chap rubs on a new Rub off the microbes with your handkerchief. Next chap rubs on a new
batch with his. Father O'Flynn would make hares of them all. Have rows batch with his. Father O'Flynn would make hares of them all. Have rows
all the same. All for number one. Children fighting for the scrapings of all the same. All for number one. Children fighting for the scrapings of
the pot. Want a souppot as big as the Phoenix park. Harpooning flitches the pot. Want a souppot as big as the Phoenix park. Harpooning flitches
and hindquarters out of it. Hate people all round you. City Arms hotel and hindquarters out of it. Hate people all round you. City Arms hotel
TABLE D'HOTE she called it. Soup, joint and sweet. Never know whose TABLE D'HOTE she called it. Soup, joint and sweet. Never know whose
thoughts you're chewing. Then who'd wash up all the plates and forks? thoughts you're chewing. Then who'd wash up all the plates and forks?
Might be all feeding on tabloids that time. Teeth getting worse and worse. Might be all feeding on tabloids that time. Teeth getting worse and worse.
After all there's a lot in that vegetarian fine flavour of things from the After all there's a lot in that vegetarian fine flavour of things from the
earth garlic of course it stinks after Italian organgrinders crisp of earth garlic of course it stinks after Italian organgrinders crisp of
onions mushrooms truffles. Pain to the animal too. Pluck and draw fowl. onions mushrooms truffles. Pain to the animal too. Pluck and draw fowl.
Wretched brutes there at the cattlemarket waiting for the poleaxe to split Wretched brutes there at the cattlemarket waiting for the poleaxe to split
their skulls open. Moo. Poor trembling calves. Meh. Staggering bob. Bubble their skulls open. Moo. Poor trembling calves. Meh. Staggering bob. Bubble
and squeak. Butchers' buckets wobbly lights. Give us that brisket off the and squeak. Butchers' buckets wobbly lights. Give us that brisket off the
hook. Plup. Rawhead and bloody bones. Flayed glasseyed sheep hung from hook. Plup. Rawhead and bloody bones. Flayed glasseyed sheep hung from
their haunches, sheepsnouts bloodypapered snivelling nosejam on sawdust. their haunches, sheepsnouts bloodypapered snivelling nosejam on sawdust.
Top and lashers going out. Don't maul them pieces, young one. Top and lashers going out. Don't maul them pieces, young one.
Hot fresh blood they prescribe for decline. Blood always needed. Hot fresh blood they prescribe for decline. Blood always needed.
Insidious. Lick it up smokinghot, thick sugary. Famished ghosts. Insidious. Lick it up smokinghot, thick sugary. Famished ghosts.
Ah, I'm hungry. Ah, I'm hungry.
He entered Davy Byrne's. Moral pub. He doesn't chat. Stands a He entered Davy Byrne's. Moral pub. He doesn't chat. Stands a
drink now and then. But in leapyear once in four. Cashed a cheque for me drink now and then. But in leapyear once in four. Cashed a cheque for me
once. once.
What will I take now? He drew his watch. Let me see now. Shandygaff? What will I take now? He drew his watch. Let me see now. Shandygaff?
--Hello, Bloom, Nosey Flynn said from his nook. --Hello, Bloom, Nosey Flynn said from his nook.
--Hello, Flynn. --Hello, Flynn.
--How's things? --How's things?
--Tiptop ... Let me see. I'll take a glass of burgundy and ... let --Tiptop ... Let me see. I'll take a glass of burgundy and ... let
me see. me see.
Sardines on the shelves. Almost taste them by looking. Sandwich? Sardines on the shelves. Almost taste them by looking. Sandwich?
Ham and his descendants musterred and bred there. Potted meats. What is Ham and his descendants musterred and bred there. Potted meats. What is
home without Plumtree's potted meat? Incomplete. What a stupid ad! home without Plumtree's potted meat? Incomplete. What a stupid ad!
Under the obituary notices they stuck it. All up a plumtree. Dignam's Under the obituary notices they stuck it. All up a plumtree. Dignam's
potted meat. Cannibals would with lemon and rice. White missionary too potted meat. Cannibals would with lemon and rice. White missionary too
salty. Like pickled pork. Expect the chief consumes the parts of honour. salty. Like pickled pork. Expect the chief consumes the parts of honour.
Ought to be tough from exercise. His wives in a row to watch the effect. Ought to be tough from exercise. His wives in a row to watch the effect.
THERE WAS A RIGHT ROYAL OLD NIGGER. WHO ATE OR SOMETHING THE SOMETHINGS OF THERE WAS A RIGHT ROYAL OLD NIGGER. WHO ATE OR SOMETHING THE SOMETHINGS OF
THE REVEREND MR MACTRIGGER. With it an abode of bliss. Lord knows what THE REVEREND MR MACTRIGGER. With it an abode of bliss. Lord knows what
concoction. Cauls mouldy tripes windpipes faked and minced up. Puzzle concoction. Cauls mouldy tripes windpipes faked and minced up. Puzzle
find the meat. Kosher. No meat and milk together. Hygiene that was what find the meat. Kosher. No meat and milk together. Hygiene that was what
they call now. Yom Kippur fast spring cleaning of inside. Peace and war they call now. Yom Kippur fast spring cleaning of inside. Peace and war
depend on some fellow's digestion. Religions. Christmas turkeys and geese. depend on some fellow's digestion. Religions. Christmas turkeys and geese.
Slaughter of innocents. Eat drink and be merry. Then casual wards full Slaughter of innocents. Eat drink and be merry. Then casual wards full
after. Heads bandaged. Cheese digests all but itself. Mity cheese. after. Heads bandaged. Cheese digests all but itself. Mity cheese.
--Have you a cheese sandwich? --Have you a cheese sandwich?
--Yes, sir. --Yes, sir.
Like a few olives too if they had them. Italian I prefer. Good glass of Like a few olives too if they had them. Italian I prefer. Good glass of
burgundy take away that. Lubricate. A nice salad, cool as a cucumber, Tom burgundy take away that. Lubricate. A nice salad, cool as a cucumber, Tom
Kernan can dress. Puts gusto into it. Pure olive oil. Milly served me that Kernan can dress. Puts gusto into it. Pure olive oil. Milly served me that
cutlet with a sprig of parsley. Take one Spanish onion. God made food, the cutlet with a sprig of parsley. Take one Spanish onion. God made food, the
devil the cooks. Devilled crab. devil the cooks. Devilled crab.
--Wife well? --Wife well?
--Quite well, thanks ... A cheese sandwich, then. Gorgonzola, have you? --Quite well, thanks ... A cheese sandwich, then. Gorgonzola, have you?
--Yes, sir. --Yes, sir.
Nosey Flynn sipped his grog. Nosey Flynn sipped his grog.
--Doing any singing those times? --Doing any singing those times?
Look at his mouth. Could whistle in his own ear. Flap ears to match. Look at his mouth. Could whistle in his own ear. Flap ears to match.
Music. Knows as much about it as my coachman. Still better tell him. Does Music. Knows as much about it as my coachman. Still better tell him. Does
no harm. Free ad. no harm. Free ad.
--She's engaged for a big tour end of this month. You may have heard --She's engaged for a big tour end of this month. You may have heard
perhaps. perhaps.
--No. O, that's the style. Who's getting it up? --No. O, that's the style. Who's getting it up?
The curate served. The curate served.
--How much is that? --How much is that?
--Seven d., sir ... Thank you, sir. --Seven d., sir ... Thank you, sir.
Mr Bloom cut his sandwich into slender strips. MR MACTRIGGER. Easier Mr Bloom cut his sandwich into slender strips. MR MACTRIGGER. Easier
than the dreamy creamy stuff. HIS FIVE HUNDRED WIVES. HAD THE TIME OF than the dreamy creamy stuff. HIS FIVE HUNDRED WIVES. HAD THE TIME OF
THEIR LIVES. THEIR LIVES.
--Mustard, sir? --Mustard, sir?
--Thank you. --Thank you.
He studded under each lifted strip yellow blobs. THEIR LIVES. I have it. He studded under each lifted strip yellow blobs. THEIR LIVES. I have it.
IT GREW BIGGER AND BIGGER AND BIGGER. IT GREW BIGGER AND BIGGER AND BIGGER.
--Getting it up? he said. Well, it's like a company idea, you see. Part --Getting it up? he said. Well, it's like a company idea, you see. Part
shares and part profits. shares and part profits.
--Ay, now I remember, Nosey Flynn said, putting his hand in his pocket to --Ay, now I remember, Nosey Flynn said, putting his hand in his pocket to
scratch his groin. Who is this was telling me? Isn't Blazes Boylan mixed scratch his groin. Who is this was telling me? Isn't Blazes Boylan mixed
up in it? up in it?
A warm shock of air heat of mustard hanched on Mr Bloom's heart. A warm shock of air heat of mustard hanched on Mr Bloom's heart.
He raised his eyes and met the stare of a bilious clock. Two. Pub clock He raised his eyes and met the stare of a bilious clock. Two. Pub clock
five minutes fast. Time going on. Hands moving. Two. Not yet. five minutes fast. Time going on. Hands moving. Two. Not yet.
His midriff yearned then upward, sank within him, yearned more longly, His midriff yearned then upward, sank within him, yearned more longly,
longingly. longingly.
Wine. Wine.
He smellsipped the cordial juice and, bidding his throat strongly to He smellsipped the cordial juice and, bidding his throat strongly to
speed it, set his wineglass delicately down. speed it, set his wineglass delicately down.
--Yes, he said. He's the organiser in point of fact. --Yes, he said. He's the organiser in point of fact.
No fear: no brains. No fear: no brains.
Nosey Flynn snuffled and scratched. Flea having a good square meal. Nosey Flynn snuffled and scratched. Flea having a good square meal.
--He had a good slice of luck, Jack Mooney was telling me, over that --He had a good slice of luck, Jack Mooney was telling me, over that
boxingmatch Myler Keogh won again that soldier in the Portobello boxingmatch Myler Keogh won again that soldier in the Portobello
barracks. By God, he had the little kipper down in the county Carlow he barracks. By God, he had the little kipper down in the county Carlow he
was telling me ... was telling me ...
Hope that dewdrop doesn't come down into his glass. No, snuffled it Hope that dewdrop doesn't come down into his glass. No, snuffled it
up. up.
--For near a month, man, before it came off. Sucking duck eggs by God till --For near a month, man, before it came off. Sucking duck eggs by God till
further orders. Keep him off the boose, see? O, by God, Blazes is a hairy further orders. Keep him off the boose, see? O, by God, Blazes is a hairy
chap. chap.
Davy Byrne came forward from the hindbar in tuckstitched Davy Byrne came forward from the hindbar in tuckstitched
shirtsleeves, cleaning his lips with two wipes of his napkin. Herring's shirtsleeves, cleaning his lips with two wipes of his napkin. Herring's
blush. Whose smile upon each feature plays with such and such replete. blush. Whose smile upon each feature plays with such and such replete.
Too much fat on the parsnips. Too much fat on the parsnips.
--And here's himself and pepper on him, Nosey Flynn said. Can you give --And here's himself and pepper on him, Nosey Flynn said. Can you give
us a good one for the Gold cup? us a good one for the Gold cup?
--I'm off that, Mr Flynn, Davy Byrne answered. I never put anything on a --I'm off that, Mr Flynn, Davy Byrne answered. I never put anything on a
horse. horse.
--You're right there, Nosey Flynn said. --You're right there, Nosey Flynn said.
Mr Bloom ate his strips of sandwich, fresh clean bread, with relish of Mr Bloom ate his strips of sandwich, fresh clean bread, with relish of
disgust pungent mustard, the feety savour of green cheese. Sips of his disgust pungent mustard, the feety savour of green cheese. Sips of his
wine soothed his palate. Not logwood that. Tastes fuller this weather with wine soothed his palate. Not logwood that. Tastes fuller this weather with
the chill off. the chill off.
Nice quiet bar. Nice piece of wood in that counter. Nicely planed. Nice quiet bar. Nice piece of wood in that counter. Nicely planed.
Like the way it curves there. Like the way it curves there.
--I wouldn't do anything at all in that line, Davy Byrne said. It ruined --I wouldn't do anything at all in that line, Davy Byrne said. It ruined
many a man, the same horses. many a man, the same horses.
Vintners' sweepstake. Licensed for the sale of beer, wine and spirits Vintners' sweepstake. Licensed for the sale of beer, wine and spirits
for consumption on the premises. Heads I win tails you lose. for consumption on the premises. Heads I win tails you lose.
--True for you, Nosey Flynn said. Unless you're in the know. There's no --True for you, Nosey Flynn said. Unless you're in the know. There's no
straight sport going now. Lenehan gets some good ones. He's giving straight sport going now. Lenehan gets some good ones. He's giving
Sceptre today. Zinfandel's the favourite, lord Howard de Walden's, won at Sceptre today. Zinfandel's the favourite, lord Howard de Walden's, won at
Epsom. Morny Cannon is riding him. I could have got seven to one against Epsom. Morny Cannon is riding him. I could have got seven to one against
Saint Amant a fortnight before. Saint Amant a fortnight before.
--That so? Davy Byrne said ... --That so? Davy Byrne said ...
He went towards the window and, taking up the pettycash book, scanned He went towards the window and, taking up the pettycash book, scanned
its pages. its pages.
--I could, faith, Nosey Flynn said, snuffling. That was a rare bit of --I could, faith, Nosey Flynn said, snuffling. That was a rare bit of
horseflesh. Saint Frusquin was her sire. She won in a thunderstorm, horseflesh. Saint Frusquin was her sire. She won in a thunderstorm,
Rothschild's filly, with wadding in her ears. Blue jacket and yellow cap. Rothschild's filly, with wadding in her ears. Blue jacket and yellow cap.
Bad luck to big Ben Dollard and his John O'Gaunt. He put me off it. Ay. Bad luck to big Ben Dollard and his John O'Gaunt. He put me off it. Ay.
He drank resignedly from his tumbler, running his fingers down the flutes. He drank resignedly from his tumbler, running his fingers down the flutes.
--Ay, he said, sighing. --Ay, he said, sighing.
Mr Bloom, champing, standing, looked upon his sigh. Nosey Mr Bloom, champing, standing, looked upon his sigh. Nosey
numbskull. Will I tell him that horse Lenehan? He knows already. Better numbskull. Will I tell him that horse Lenehan? He knows already. Better
let him forget. Go and lose more. Fool and his money. Dewdrop coming down let him forget. Go and lose more. Fool and his money. Dewdrop coming down
again. Cold nose he'd have kissing a woman. Still they might like. Prickly again. Cold nose he'd have kissing a woman. Still they might like. Prickly
beards they like. Dogs' cold noses. Old Mrs Riordan with the rumbling beards they like. Dogs' cold noses. Old Mrs Riordan with the rumbling
stomach's Skye terrier in the City Arms hotel. Molly fondling him in her stomach's Skye terrier in the City Arms hotel. Molly fondling him in her
lap. O, the big doggybowwowsywowsy! lap. O, the big doggybowwowsywowsy!
Wine soaked and softened rolled pith of bread mustard a moment Wine soaked and softened rolled pith of bread mustard a moment
mawkish cheese. Nice wine it is. Taste it better because I'm not thirsty. mawkish cheese. Nice wine it is. Taste it better because I'm not thirsty.
Bath of course does that. Just a bite or two. Then about six o'clock I can. Bath of course does that. Just a bite or two. Then about six o'clock I can.
Six. Six. Time will be gone then. She ... Six. Six. Time will be gone then. She ...
Mild fire of wine kindled his veins. I wanted that badly. Felt so off Mild fire of wine kindled his veins. I wanted that badly. Felt so off
colour. His eyes unhungrily saw shelves of tins: sardines, gaudy colour. His eyes unhungrily saw shelves of tins: sardines, gaudy
lobsters' claws. All the odd things people pick up for food. Out of lobsters' claws. All the odd things people pick up for food. Out of
shells, periwinkles with a pin, off trees, snails out of the ground the shells, periwinkles with a pin, off trees, snails out of the ground the
French eat, out of the sea with bait on a hook. Silly fish learn nothing French eat, out of the sea with bait on a hook. Silly fish learn nothing
in a thousand years. If you didn't know risky putting anything into your in a thousand years. If you didn't know risky putting anything into your
mouth. Poisonous berries. Johnny Magories. Roundness you think good. mouth. Poisonous berries. Johnny Magories. Roundness you think good.
Gaudy colour warns you off. One fellow told another and so on. Try it on Gaudy colour warns you off. One fellow told another and so on. Try it on
the dog first. Led on by the smell or the look. Tempting fruit. Ice the dog first. Led on by the smell or the look. Tempting fruit. Ice
cones. Cream. Instinct. Orangegroves for instance. Need artificial cones. Cream. Instinct. Orangegroves for instance. Need artificial
irrigation. Bleibtreustrasse. Yes but what about oysters. Unsightly like irrigation. Bleibtreustrasse. Yes but what about oysters. Unsightly like
a clot of phlegm. Filthy shells. Devil to open them too. Who found them a clot of phlegm. Filthy shells. Devil to open them too. Who found them
out? Garbage, sewage they feed on. Fizz and Red bank oysters. Effect on out? Garbage, sewage they feed on. Fizz and Red bank oysters. Effect on
the sexual. Aphrodis. He was in the Red Bank this morning. Was he oysters the sexual. Aphrodis. He was in the Red Bank this morning. Was he oysters
old fish at table perhaps he young flesh in bed no June has no ar no old fish at table perhaps he young flesh in bed no June has no ar no
oysters. But there are people like things high. Tainted game. Jugged oysters. But there are people like things high. Tainted game. Jugged
hare. First catch your hare. Chinese eating eggs fifty years old, blue hare. First catch your hare. Chinese eating eggs fifty years old, blue
and green again. Dinner of thirty courses. Each dish harmless might mix and green again. Dinner of thirty courses. Each dish harmless might mix
inside. Idea for a poison mystery. That archduke Leopold was it no yes or inside. Idea for a poison mystery. That archduke Leopold was it no yes or
was it Otto one of those Habsburgs? Or who was it used to eat the scruff was it Otto one of those Habsburgs? Or who was it used to eat the scruff
off his own head? Cheapest lunch in town. Of course aristocrats, then the off his own head? Cheapest lunch in town. Of course aristocrats, then the
others copy to be in the fashion. Milly too rock oil and flour. Raw others copy to be in the fashion. Milly too rock oil and flour. Raw
pastry I like myself. Half the catch of oysters they throw back in the pastry I like myself. Half the catch of oysters they throw back in the
sea to keep up the price. Cheap no-one would buy. Caviare. Do the grand. sea to keep up the price. Cheap no-one would buy. Caviare. Do the grand.
Hock in green glasses. Swell blowout. Lady this. Powdered bosom pearls. Hock in green glasses. Swell blowout. Lady this. Powdered bosom pearls.
The ELITE. CREME DE LA CREME. They want special dishes to pretend The ELITE. CREME DE LA CREME. They want special dishes to pretend
they're. Hermit with a platter of pulse keep down the stings of the they're. Hermit with a platter of pulse keep down the stings of the
flesh. Know me come eat with me. Royal sturgeon high sheriff, Coffey, the flesh. Know me come eat with me. Royal sturgeon high sheriff, Coffey, the
butcher, right to venisons of the forest from his ex. Send him back the butcher, right to venisons of the forest from his ex. Send him back the
half of a cow. Spread I saw down in the Master of the Rolls' kitchen half of a cow. Spread I saw down in the Master of the Rolls' kitchen
area. Whitehatted CHEF like a rabbi. Combustible duck. Curly cabbage A LA area. Whitehatted CHEF like a rabbi. Combustible duck. Curly cabbage A LA
DUCHESSE DE PARME. Just as well to write it on the bill of fare so you DUCHESSE DE PARME. Just as well to write it on the bill of fare so you
can know what you've eaten. Too many drugs spoil the broth. I know it can know what you've eaten. Too many drugs spoil the broth. I know it
myself. Dosing it with Edwards' desiccated soup. Geese stuffed silly for myself. Dosing it with Edwards' desiccated soup. Geese stuffed silly for
them. Lobsters boiled alive. Do ptake some ptarmigan. Wouldn't mind being them. Lobsters boiled alive. Do ptake some ptarmigan. Wouldn't mind being
a waiter in a swell hotel. Tips, evening dress, halfnaked ladies. May I a waiter in a swell hotel. Tips, evening dress, halfnaked ladies. May I
tempt you to a little more filleted lemon sole, miss Dubedat? Yes, do tempt you to a little more filleted lemon sole, miss Dubedat? Yes, do
bedad. And she did bedad. Huguenot name I expect that. A miss Dubedat bedad. And she did bedad. Huguenot name I expect that. A miss Dubedat
lived in Killiney, I remember. DU, DE LA French. Still it's the same fish lived in Killiney, I remember. DU, DE LA French. Still it's the same fish
perhaps old Micky Hanlon of Moore street ripped the guts out of making perhaps old Micky Hanlon of Moore street ripped the guts out of making
money hand over fist finger in fishes' gills can't write his name on a money hand over fist finger in fishes' gills can't write his name on a
cheque think he was painting the landscape with his mouth twisted. cheque think he was painting the landscape with his mouth twisted.
Moooikill A Aitcha Ha ignorant as a kish of brogues, worth fifty thousand Moooikill A Aitcha Ha ignorant as a kish of brogues, worth fifty thousand
pounds. pounds.
Stuck on the pane two flies buzzed, stuck. Stuck on the pane two flies buzzed, stuck.
Glowing wine on his palate lingered swallowed. Crushing in the winepress Glowing wine on his palate lingered swallowed. Crushing in the winepress
grapes of Burgundy. Sun's heat it is. Seems to a secret touch telling me grapes of Burgundy. Sun's heat it is. Seems to a secret touch telling me
memory. Touched his sense moistened remembered. Hidden under wild ferns memory. Touched his sense moistened remembered. Hidden under wild ferns
on Howth below us bay sleeping: sky. No sound. The sky. The bay purple by on Howth below us bay sleeping: sky. No sound. The sky. The bay purple by
the Lion's head. Green by Drumleck. Yellowgreen towards Sutton. Fields of the Lion's head. Green by Drumleck. Yellowgreen towards Sutton. Fields of
undersea, the lines faint brown in grass, buried cities. Pillowed on my undersea, the lines faint brown in grass, buried cities. Pillowed on my
coat she had her hair, earwigs in the heather scrub my hand under her coat she had her hair, earwigs in the heather scrub my hand under her
nape, you'll toss me all. O wonder! Coolsoft with ointments her hand nape, you'll toss me all. O wonder! Coolsoft with ointments her hand
touched me, caressed: her eyes upon me did not turn away. Ravished over touched me, caressed: her eyes upon me did not turn away. Ravished over
her I lay, full lips full open, kissed her mouth. Yum. Softly she gave me her I lay, full lips full open, kissed her mouth. Yum. Softly she gave me
in my mouth the seedcake warm and chewed. Mawkish pulp her mouth had in my mouth the seedcake warm and chewed. Mawkish pulp her mouth had
mumbled sweetsour of her spittle. Joy: I ate it: joy. Young life, her mumbled sweetsour of her spittle. Joy: I ate it: joy. Young life, her
lips that gave me pouting. Soft warm sticky gumjelly lips. Flowers her lips that gave me pouting. Soft warm sticky gumjelly lips. Flowers her
eyes were, take me, willing eyes. Pebbles fell. She lay still. A goat. eyes were, take me, willing eyes. Pebbles fell. She lay still. A goat.
No-one. High on Ben Howth rhododendrons a nannygoat walking surefooted, No-one. High on Ben Howth rhododendrons a nannygoat walking surefooted,
dropping currants. Screened under ferns she laughed warmfolded. Wildly I dropping currants. Screened under ferns she laughed warmfolded. Wildly I
lay on her, kissed her: eyes, her lips, her stretched neck beating, lay on her, kissed her: eyes, her lips, her stretched neck beating,
woman's breasts full in her blouse of nun's veiling, fat nipples upright. woman's breasts full in her blouse of nun's veiling, fat nipples upright.
Hot I tongued her. She kissed me. I was kissed. All yielding she tossed Hot I tongued her. She kissed me. I was kissed. All yielding she tossed
my hair. Kissed, she kissed me. my hair. Kissed, she kissed me.
Me. And me now. Me. And me now.
Stuck, the flies buzzed. Stuck, the flies buzzed.
His downcast eyes followed the silent veining of the oaken slab. Beauty: His downcast eyes followed the silent veining of the oaken slab. Beauty:
it curves: curves are beauty. Shapely goddesses, Venus, Juno: curves the it curves: curves are beauty. Shapely goddesses, Venus, Juno: curves the
world admires. Can see them library museum standing in the round hall, world admires. Can see them library museum standing in the round hall,
naked goddesses. Aids to digestion. They don't care what man looks. All naked goddesses. Aids to digestion. They don't care what man looks. All
to see. Never speaking. I mean to say to fellows like Flynn. Suppose she to see. Never speaking. I mean to say to fellows like Flynn. Suppose she
did Pygmalion and Galatea what would she say first? Mortal! Put you in did Pygmalion and Galatea what would she say first? Mortal! Put you in
your proper place. Quaffing nectar at mess with gods golden dishes, all your proper place. Quaffing nectar at mess with gods golden dishes, all
ambrosial. Not like a tanner lunch we have, boiled mutton, carrots and ambrosial. Not like a tanner lunch we have, boiled mutton, carrots and
turnips, bottle of Allsop. Nectar imagine it drinking electricity: gods' turnips, bottle of Allsop. Nectar imagine it drinking electricity: gods'
food. Lovely forms of women sculped Junonian. Immortal lovely. And we food. Lovely forms of women sculped Junonian. Immortal lovely. And we
stuffing food in one hole and out behind: food, chyle, blood, dung, stuffing food in one hole and out behind: food, chyle, blood, dung,
earth, food: have to feed it like stoking an engine. They have no. Never earth, food: have to feed it like stoking an engine. They have no. Never
looked. I'll look today. Keeper won't see. Bend down let something drop looked. I'll look today. Keeper won't see. Bend down let something drop
see if she. see if she.
Dribbling a quiet message from his bladder came to go to do not to do Dribbling a quiet message from his bladder came to go to do not to do
there to do. A man and ready he drained his glass to the lees and walked, there to do. A man and ready he drained his glass to the lees and walked,
to men too they gave themselves, manly conscious, lay with men lovers, a to men too they gave themselves, manly conscious, lay with men lovers, a
youth enjoyed her, to the yard. youth enjoyed her, to the yard.
When the sound of his boots had ceased Davy Byrne said from his book: When the sound of his boots had ceased Davy Byrne said from his book:
--What is this he is? Isn't he in the insurance line? --What is this he is? Isn't he in the insurance line?
--He's out of that long ago, Nosey Flynn said. He does canvassing for the --He's out of that long ago, Nosey Flynn said. He does canvassing for the
FREEMAN. FREEMAN.
--I know him well to see, Davy Byrne said. Is he in trouble? --I know him well to see, Davy Byrne said. Is he in trouble?
--Trouble? Nosey Flynn said. Not that I heard of. Why? --Trouble? Nosey Flynn said. Not that I heard of. Why?
--I noticed he was in mourning. --I noticed he was in mourning.
--Was he? Nosey Flynn said. So he was, faith. I asked him how was all at --Was he? Nosey Flynn said. So he was, faith. I asked him how was all at
home. You're right, by God. So he was. home. You're right, by God. So he was.
--I never broach the subject, Davy Byrne said humanely, if I see a --I never broach the subject, Davy Byrne said humanely, if I see a
gentleman is in trouble that way. It only brings it up fresh in their gentleman is in trouble that way. It only brings it up fresh in their
minds. minds.
--It's not the wife anyhow, Nosey Flynn said. I met him the day before --It's not the wife anyhow, Nosey Flynn said. I met him the day before
yesterday and he coming out of that Irish farm dairy John Wyse Nolan's yesterday and he coming out of that Irish farm dairy John Wyse Nolan's
wife has in Henry street with a jar of cream in his hand taking it home wife has in Henry street with a jar of cream in his hand taking it home
to his better half. She's well nourished, I tell you. Plovers on toast. to his better half. She's well nourished, I tell you. Plovers on toast.
--And is he doing for the FREEMAN? Davy Byrne said. --And is he doing for the FREEMAN? Davy Byrne said.
Nosey Flynn pursed his lips. Nosey Flynn pursed his lips.
---He doesn't buy cream on the ads he picks up. You can make bacon of ---He doesn't buy cream on the ads he picks up. You can make bacon of
that. that.
--How so? Davy Byrne asked, coming from his book. --How so? Davy Byrne asked, coming from his book.
Nosey Flynn made swift passes in the air with juggling fingers. He Nosey Flynn made swift passes in the air with juggling fingers. He
winked. winked.
--He's in the craft, he said. --He's in the craft, he said.
---Do you tell me so? Davy Byrne said. ---Do you tell me so? Davy Byrne said.
--Very much so, Nosey Flynn said. Ancient free and accepted order. He's --Very much so, Nosey Flynn said. Ancient free and accepted order. He's
an excellent brother. Light, life and love, by God. They give him a leg an excellent brother. Light, life and love, by God. They give him a leg
up. I was told that by a--well, I won't say who. up. I was told that by a--well, I won't say who.
--Is that a fact? --Is that a fact?
--O, it's a fine order, Nosey Flynn said. They stick to you when you're --O, it's a fine order, Nosey Flynn said. They stick to you when you're
down. I know a fellow was trying to get into it. But they're as close as down. I know a fellow was trying to get into it. But they're as close as
damn it. By God they did right to keep the women out of it. damn it. By God they did right to keep the women out of it.
Davy Byrne smiledyawnednodded all in one: Davy Byrne smiledyawnednodded all in one:
--Iiiiiichaaaaaaach! --Iiiiiichaaaaaaach!
--There was one woman, Nosey Flynn said, hid herself in a clock to find --There was one woman, Nosey Flynn said, hid herself in a clock to find
out what they do be doing. But be damned but they smelt her out and swore out what they do be doing. But be damned but they smelt her out and swore
her in on the spot a master mason. That was one of the saint Legers of her in on the spot a master mason. That was one of the saint Legers of
Doneraile. Doneraile.
Davy Byrne, sated after his yawn, said with tearwashed eyes: Davy Byrne, sated after his yawn, said with tearwashed eyes:
--And is that a fact? Decent quiet man he is. I often saw him in here and --And is that a fact? Decent quiet man he is. I often saw him in here and
I never once saw him--you know, over the line. I never once saw him--you know, over the line.
--God Almighty couldn't make him drunk, Nosey Flynn said firmly. Slips --God Almighty couldn't make him drunk, Nosey Flynn said firmly. Slips
off when the fun gets too hot. Didn't you see him look at his watch? Ah, off when the fun gets too hot. Didn't you see him look at his watch? Ah,
you weren't there. If you ask him to have a drink first thing he does he you weren't there. If you ask him to have a drink first thing he does he
outs with the watch to see what he ought to imbibe. Declare to God he outs with the watch to see what he ought to imbibe. Declare to God he
does. does.
--There are some like that, Davy Byrne said. He's a safe man, I'd say. --There are some like that, Davy Byrne said. He's a safe man, I'd say.
--He's not too bad, Nosey Flynn said, snuffling it up. He's been known to --He's not too bad, Nosey Flynn said, snuffling it up. He's been known to
put his hand down too to help a fellow. Give the devil his due. O, Bloom put his hand down too to help a fellow. Give the devil his due. O, Bloom
has his good points. But there's one thing he'll never do. has his good points. But there's one thing he'll never do.
His hand scrawled a dry pen signature beside his grog. His hand scrawled a dry pen signature beside his grog.
--I know, Davy Byrne said. --I know, Davy Byrne said.
--Nothing in black and white, Nosey Flynn said. --Nothing in black and white, Nosey Flynn said.
Paddy Leonard and Bantam Lyons came in. Tom Rochford followed frowning, a Paddy Leonard and Bantam Lyons came in. Tom Rochford followed frowning, a
plaining hand on his claret waistcoat. plaining hand on his claret waistcoat.
--Day, Mr Byrne. --Day, Mr Byrne.
--Day, gentlemen. --Day, gentlemen.
They paused at the counter. They paused at the counter.
--Who's standing? Paddy Leonard asked. --Who's standing? Paddy Leonard asked.
--I'm sitting anyhow, Nosey Flynn answered. --I'm sitting anyhow, Nosey Flynn answered.
--Well, what'll it be? Paddy Leonard asked. --Well, what'll it be? Paddy Leonard asked.
--I'll take a stone ginger, Bantam Lyons said. --I'll take a stone ginger, Bantam Lyons said.
--How much? Paddy Leonard cried. Since when, for God' sake? What's yours, --How much? Paddy Leonard cried. Since when, for God' sake? What's yours,
Tom? Tom?
--How is the main drainage? Nosey Flynn asked, sipping. --How is the main drainage? Nosey Flynn asked, sipping.
For answer Tom Rochford pressed his hand to his breastbone and hiccupped. For answer Tom Rochford pressed his hand to his breastbone and hiccupped.
--Would I trouble you for a glass of fresh water, Mr Byrne? he said. --Would I trouble you for a glass of fresh water, Mr Byrne? he said.
--Certainly, sir. --Certainly, sir.
Paddy Leonard eyed his alemates. Paddy Leonard eyed his alemates.
--Lord love a duck, he said. Look at what I'm standing drinks to! Cold --Lord love a duck, he said. Look at what I'm standing drinks to! Cold
water and gingerpop! Two fellows that would suck whisky off a sore leg. water and gingerpop! Two fellows that would suck whisky off a sore leg.
He has some bloody horse up his sleeve for the Gold cup. A dead snip. He has some bloody horse up his sleeve for the Gold cup. A dead snip.
--Zinfandel is it? Nosey Flynn asked. --Zinfandel is it? Nosey Flynn asked.
Tom Rochford spilt powder from a twisted paper into the water set before Tom Rochford spilt powder from a twisted paper into the water set before
him. him.
--That cursed dyspepsia, he said before drinking. --That cursed dyspepsia, he said before drinking.
--Breadsoda is very good, Davy Byrne said. --Breadsoda is very good, Davy Byrne said.
Tom Rochford nodded and drank. Tom Rochford nodded and drank.
--Is it Zinfandel? --Is it Zinfandel?
--Say nothing! Bantam Lyons winked. I'm going to plunge five bob on my --Say nothing! Bantam Lyons winked. I'm going to plunge five bob on my
own. own.
--Tell us if you're worth your salt and be damned to you, Paddy Leonard --Tell us if you're worth your salt and be damned to you, Paddy Leonard
said. Who gave it to you? said. Who gave it to you?
Mr Bloom on his way out raised three fingers in greeting. Mr Bloom on his way out raised three fingers in greeting.
--So long! Nosey Flynn said. --So long! Nosey Flynn said.
The others turned. The others turned.
--That's the man now that gave it to me, Bantam Lyons whispered. --That's the man now that gave it to me, Bantam Lyons whispered.
--Prrwht! Paddy Leonard said with scorn. Mr Byrne, sir, we'll take two of --Prrwht! Paddy Leonard said with scorn. Mr Byrne, sir, we'll take two of
your small Jamesons after that and a ... your small Jamesons after that and a ...
--Stone ginger, Davy Byrne added civilly. --Stone ginger, Davy Byrne added civilly.
--Ay, Paddy Leonard said. A suckingbottle for the baby. --Ay, Paddy Leonard said. A suckingbottle for the baby.
Mr Bloom walked towards Dawson street, his tongue brushing his teeth Mr Bloom walked towards Dawson street, his tongue brushing his teeth
smooth. Something green it would have to be: spinach, say. Then with smooth. Something green it would have to be: spinach, say. Then with
those Rontgen rays searchlight you could. those Rontgen rays searchlight you could.
At Duke lane a ravenous terrier choked up a sick knuckly cud on the At Duke lane a ravenous terrier choked up a sick knuckly cud on the
cobblestones and lapped it with new zest. Surfeit. Returned with thanks cobblestones and lapped it with new zest. Surfeit. Returned with thanks
having fully digested the contents. First sweet then savoury. Mr Bloom having fully digested the contents. First sweet then savoury. Mr Bloom
coasted warily. Ruminants. His second course. Their upper jaw they move. coasted warily. Ruminants. His second course. Their upper jaw they move.
Wonder if Tom Rochford will do anything with that invention of his? Wonder if Tom Rochford will do anything with that invention of his?
Wasting time explaining it to Flynn's mouth. Lean people long mouths. Wasting time explaining it to Flynn's mouth. Lean people long mouths.
Ought to be a hall or a place where inventors could go in and invent Ought to be a hall or a place where inventors could go in and invent
free. Course then you'd have all the cranks pestering. free. Course then you'd have all the cranks pestering.
He hummed, prolonging in solemn echo the closes of the bars: He hummed, prolonging in solemn echo the closes of the bars:
    DON GIOVANNI, A CENAR TECO     DON GIOVANNI, A CENAR TECO
    M'INVITASTI.     M'INVITASTI.
Feel better. Burgundy. Good pick me up. Who distilled first? Some chap in Feel better. Burgundy. Good pick me up. Who distilled first? Some chap in
the blues. Dutch courage. That KILKENNY PEOPLE in the national library the blues. Dutch courage. That KILKENNY PEOPLE in the national library
now I must. now I must.
Bare clean closestools waiting in the window of William Miller, plumber, Bare clean closestools waiting in the window of William Miller, plumber,
turned back his thoughts. They could: and watch it all the way down, turned back his thoughts. They could: and watch it all the way down,
swallow a pin sometimes come out of the ribs years after, tour round the swallow a pin sometimes come out of the ribs years after, tour round the
body changing biliary duct spleen squirting liver gastric juice coils of body changing biliary duct spleen squirting liver gastric juice coils of
intestines like pipes. But the poor buffer would have to stand all the intestines like pipes. But the poor buffer would have to stand all the
time with his insides entrails on show. Science. time with his insides entrails on show. Science.
--A CENAR TECO. --A CENAR TECO.
What does that TECO mean? Tonight perhaps. What does that TECO mean? Tonight perhaps.
    DON GIOVANNI, THOU HAST ME INVITED     DON GIOVANNI, THOU HAST ME INVITED
    TO COME TO SUPPER TONIGHT,     TO COME TO SUPPER TONIGHT,
    THE RUM THE RUMDUM.     THE RUM THE RUMDUM.
Doesn't go properly. Doesn't go properly.
Keyes: two months if I get Nannetti to. That'll be two pounds ten about Keyes: two months if I get Nannetti to. That'll be two pounds ten about
two pounds eight. Three Hynes owes me. Two eleven. Prescott's dyeworks two pounds eight. Three Hynes owes me. Two eleven. Prescott's dyeworks
van over there. If I get Billy Prescott's ad: two fifteen. Five guineas van over there. If I get Billy Prescott's ad: two fifteen. Five guineas
Do you want to cross? There's nothing in the way. Do you want to cross? There's nothing in the way.
The cane moved out trembling to the left. Mr Bloom's eye followed its The cane moved out trembling to the left. Mr Bloom's eye followed its
line and saw again the dyeworks' van drawn up before Drago's. Where I saw line and saw again the dyeworks' van drawn up before Drago's. Where I saw
his brillantined hair just when I was. Horse drooping. Driver in John his brillantined hair just when I was. Horse drooping. Driver in John
Long's. Slaking his drouth. Long's. Slaking his drouth.
--There's a van there, Mr Bloom said, but it's not moving. I'll see you --There's a van there, Mr Bloom said, but it's not moving. I'll see you
across. Do you want to go to Molesworth street? across. Do you want to go to Molesworth street?
--Yes, the stripling answered. South Frederick street. --Yes, the stripling answered. South Frederick street.
--Come, Mr Bloom said. --Come, Mr Bloom said.
He touched the thin elbow gently: then took the limp seeing hand to guide He touched the thin elbow gently: then took the limp seeing hand to guide
it forward. it forward.
Say something to him. Better not do the condescending. They mistrust what Say something to him. Better not do the condescending. They mistrust what
you tell them. Pass a common remark. you tell them. Pass a common remark.
--The rain kept off. --The rain kept off.
No answer. No answer.
Stains on his coat. Slobbers his food, I suppose. Tastes all different Stains on his coat. Slobbers his food, I suppose. Tastes all different
for him. Have to be spoonfed first. Like a child's hand, his hand. Like for him. Have to be spoonfed first. Like a child's hand, his hand. Like
Milly's was. Sensitive. Sizing me up I daresay from my hand. Wonder if he Milly's was. Sensitive. Sizing me up I daresay from my hand. Wonder if he
has a name. Van. Keep his cane clear of the horse's legs: tired drudge has a name. Van. Keep his cane clear of the horse's legs: tired drudge
get his doze. That's right. Clear. Behind a bull: in front of a horse. get his doze. That's right. Clear. Behind a bull: in front of a horse.
--Thanks, sir. --Thanks, sir.
Knows I'm a man. Voice. Knows I'm a man. Voice.
--Right now? First turn to the left. --Right now? First turn to the left.
The blind stripling tapped the curbstone and went on his way, drawing his The blind stripling tapped the curbstone and went on his way, drawing his
cane back, feeling again. cane back, feeling again.
Mr Bloom walked behind the eyeless feet, a flatcut suit of herringbone Mr Bloom walked behind the eyeless feet, a flatcut suit of herringbone
tweed. Poor young fellow! How on earth did he know that van was there? tweed. Poor young fellow! How on earth did he know that van was there?
Must have felt it. See things in their forehead perhaps: kind of sense of Must have felt it. See things in their forehead perhaps: kind of sense of
volume. Weight or size of it, something blacker than the dark. Wonder volume. Weight or size of it, something blacker than the dark. Wonder
would he feel it if something was removed. Feel a gap. Queer idea of would he feel it if something was removed. Feel a gap. Queer idea of
Dublin he must have, tapping his way round by the stones. Could he walk Dublin he must have, tapping his way round by the stones. Could he walk
in a beeline if he hadn't that cane? Bloodless pious face like a fellow in a beeline if he hadn't that cane? Bloodless pious face like a fellow
going in to be a priest. going in to be a priest.
Penrose! That was that chap's name. Penrose! That was that chap's name.
Look at all the things they can learn to do. Read with their fingers. Look at all the things they can learn to do. Read with their fingers.
Tune pianos. Or we are surprised they have any brains. Why we think a Tune pianos. Or we are surprised they have any brains. Why we think a
deformed person or a hunchback clever if he says something we might say. deformed person or a hunchback clever if he says something we might say.
Of course the other senses are more. Embroider. Plait baskets. People Of course the other senses are more. Embroider. Plait baskets. People
ought to help. Workbasket I could buy for Molly's birthday. Hates sewing. ought to help. Workbasket I could buy for Molly's birthday. Hates sewing.
Might take an objection. Dark men they call them. Might take an objection. Dark men they call them.
Sense of smell must be stronger too. Smells on all sides, bunched Sense of smell must be stronger too. Smells on all sides, bunched
together. Each street different smell. Each person too. Then the spring, together. Each street different smell. Each person too. Then the spring,
the summer: smells. Tastes? They say you can't taste wines with your eyes the summer: smells. Tastes? They say you can't taste wines with your eyes
shut or a cold in the head. Also smoke in the dark they say get no shut or a cold in the head. Also smoke in the dark they say get no
pleasure. pleasure.
And with a woman, for instance. More shameless not seeing. That girl And with a woman, for instance. More shameless not seeing. That girl
passing the Stewart institution, head in the air. Look at me. I have them passing the Stewart institution, head in the air. Look at me. I have them
all on. Must be strange not to see her. Kind of a form in his mind's eye. all on. Must be strange not to see her. Kind of a form in his mind's eye.
The voice, temperatures: when he touches her with his fingers must almost The voice, temperatures: when he touches her with his fingers must almost
see the lines, the curves. His hands on her hair, for instance. Say it see the lines, the curves. His hands on her hair, for instance. Say it
was black, for instance. Good. We call it black. Then passing over her was black, for instance. Good. We call it black. Then passing over her
white skin. Different feel perhaps. Feeling of white. white skin. Different feel perhaps. Feeling of white.
Postoffice. Must answer. Fag today. Send her a postal order two Postoffice. Must answer. Fag today. Send her a postal order two
shillings, half a crown. Accept my little present. Stationer's just here shillings, half a crown. Accept my little present. Stationer's just here
too. Wait. Think over it. too. Wait. Think over it.
With a gentle finger he felt ever so slowly the hair combed back above With a gentle finger he felt ever so slowly the hair combed back above
his ears. Again. Fibres of fine fine straw. Then gently his finger felt his ears. Again. Fibres of fine fine straw. Then gently his finger felt
the skin of his right cheek. Downy hair there too. Not smooth enough. The the skin of his right cheek. Downy hair there too. Not smooth enough. The
belly is the smoothest. No-one about. There he goes into Frederick belly is the smoothest. No-one about. There he goes into Frederick
street. Perhaps to Levenston's dancing academy piano. Might be settling street. Perhaps to Levenston's dancing academy piano. Might be settling
my braces. my braces.
Walking by Doran's publichouse he slid his hand between his waistcoat and Walking by Doran's publichouse he slid his hand between his waistcoat and
trousers and, pulling aside his shirt gently, felt a slack fold of his trousers and, pulling aside his shirt gently, felt a slack fold of his
belly. But I know it's whitey yellow. Want to try in the dark to see. belly. But I know it's whitey yellow. Want to try in the dark to see.
He withdrew his hand and pulled his dress to. He withdrew his hand and pulled his dress to.
Poor fellow! Quite a boy. Terrible. Really terrible. What dreams would he Poor fellow! Quite a boy. Terrible. Really terrible. What dreams would he
have, not seeing? Life a dream for him. Where is the justice being born have, not seeing? Life a dream for him. Where is the justice being born
that way? All those women and children excursion beanfeast burned and that way? All those women and children excursion beanfeast burned and
drowned in New York. Holocaust. Karma they call that transmigration for drowned in New York. Holocaust. Karma they call that transmigration for
sins you did in a past life the reincarnation met him pike hoses. Dear, sins you did in a past life the reincarnation met him pike hoses. Dear,
dear, dear. Pity, of course: but somehow you can't cotton on to them dear, dear. Pity, of course: but somehow you can't cotton on to them
someway. someway.
Sir Frederick Falkiner going into the freemasons' hall. Solemn as Troy. Sir Frederick Falkiner going into the freemasons' hall. Solemn as Troy.
secret and made her swear she'd never about the gentleman lodger that was secret and made her swear she'd never about the gentleman lodger that was
staying with them out of the Congested Districts Board that had pictures staying with them out of the Congested Districts Board that had pictures
cut out of papers of those skirtdancers and highkickers and she said he cut out of papers of those skirtdancers and highkickers and she said he
used to do something not very nice that you could imagine sometimes in used to do something not very nice that you could imagine sometimes in
the bed. But this was altogether different from a thing like that the bed. But this was altogether different from a thing like that
because there was all the difference because she could almost feel because there was all the difference because she could almost feel
him draw her face to his and the first quick hot touch of his him draw her face to his and the first quick hot touch of his
handsome lips. Besides there was absolution so long as you didn't handsome lips. Besides there was absolution so long as you didn't
do the other thing before being married and there ought to be do the other thing before being married and there ought to be
women priests that would understand without your telling out and women priests that would understand without your telling out and
Cissy Caffrey too sometimes had that dreamy kind of dreamy look Cissy Caffrey too sometimes had that dreamy kind of dreamy look
in her eyes so that she too, my dear, and Winny Rippingham so mad in her eyes so that she too, my dear, and Winny Rippingham so mad
about actors' photographs and besides it was on account of that other about actors' photographs and besides it was on account of that other
thing coming on the way it did. thing coming on the way it did.
And Jacky Caffrey shouted to look, there was another and she leaned back And Jacky Caffrey shouted to look, there was another and she leaned back
and the garters were blue to match on account of the transparent and they and the garters were blue to match on account of the transparent and they
all saw it and they all shouted to look, look, there it was and she leaned all saw it and they all shouted to look, look, there it was and she leaned
back ever so far to see the fireworks and something queer was flying back ever so far to see the fireworks and something queer was flying
through the air, a soft thing, to and fro, dark. And she saw a long Roman through the air, a soft thing, to and fro, dark. And she saw a long Roman
candle going up over the trees, up, up, and, in the tense hush, candle going up over the trees, up, up, and, in the tense hush,
they were all breathless with excitement as it went higher and higher they were all breathless with excitement as it went higher and higher
and she had to lean back more and more to look up after it, high, and she had to lean back more and more to look up after it, high,
high, almost out of sight, and her face was suffused with a divine, high, almost out of sight, and her face was suffused with a divine,
an entrancing blush from straining back and he could see her other an entrancing blush from straining back and he could see her other
things too, nainsook knickers, the fabric that caresses the skin, things too, nainsook knickers, the fabric that caresses the skin,
better than those other pettiwidth, the green, four and eleven, better than those other pettiwidth, the green, four and eleven,
on account of being white and she let him and she saw that he saw and then on account of being white and she let him and she saw that he saw and then
it went so high it went out of sight a moment and she was trembling in it went so high it went out of sight a moment and she was trembling in
every limb from being bent so far back that he had a full view every limb from being bent so far back that he had a full view
high up above her knee where no-one ever not even on the swing or wading high up above her knee where no-one ever not even on the swing or wading
and she wasn't ashamed and he wasn't either to look in that immodest way and she wasn't ashamed and he wasn't either to look in that immodest way
like that because he couldn't resist the sight of the wondrous revealment like that because he couldn't resist the sight of the wondrous revealment
half offered like those skirtdancers behaving so immodest before gentlemen half offered like those skirtdancers behaving so immodest before gentlemen
looking and he kept on looking, looking. She would fain have cried to him looking and he kept on looking, looking. She would fain have cried to him
chokingly, held out her snowy slender arms to him to come, to feel his chokingly, held out her snowy slender arms to him to come, to feel his
lips laid on her white brow, the cry of a young girl's love, a little lips laid on her white brow, the cry of a young girl's love, a little
strangled cry, wrung from her, that cry that has rung through the ages. strangled cry, wrung from her, that cry that has rung through the ages.
And then a rocket sprang and bang shot blind blank and O! then the Roman And then a rocket sprang and bang shot blind blank and O! then the Roman
candle burst and it was like a sigh of O! and everyone cried O! O! in candle burst and it was like a sigh of O! and everyone cried O! O! in
raptures and it gushed out of it a stream of rain gold hair threads and raptures and it gushed out of it a stream of rain gold hair threads and
they shed and ah! they were all greeny dewy stars falling with golden, they shed and ah! they were all greeny dewy stars falling with golden,
O so lovely, O, soft, sweet, soft! O so lovely, O, soft, sweet, soft!
Then all melted away dewily in the grey air: all was silent. Ah! She Then all melted away dewily in the grey air: all was silent. Ah! She
glanced at him as she bent forward quickly, a pathetic little glance of glanced at him as she bent forward quickly, a pathetic little glance of
piteous protest, of shy reproach under which he coloured like a girl piteous protest, of shy reproach under which he coloured like a girl
He was leaning back against the rock behind. Leopold Bloom (for it is he) He was leaning back against the rock behind. Leopold Bloom (for it is he)
stands silent, with bowed head before those young guileless eyes. What a stands silent, with bowed head before those young guileless eyes. What a
brute he had been! At it again? A fair unsullied soul had called to him brute he had been! At it again? A fair unsullied soul had called to him
and, wretch that he was, how had he answered? An utter cad he had been! and, wretch that he was, how had he answered? An utter cad he had been!
He of all men! But there was an infinite store of mercy in those eyes, He of all men! But there was an infinite store of mercy in those eyes,
for him too a word of pardon even though he had erred and sinned and for him too a word of pardon even though he had erred and sinned and
wandered. Should a girl tell? No, a thousand times no. That was their wandered. Should a girl tell? No, a thousand times no. That was their
secret, only theirs, alone in the hiding twilight and there was none to secret, only theirs, alone in the hiding twilight and there was none to
know or tell save the little bat that flew so softly through the evening know or tell save the little bat that flew so softly through the evening
to and fro and little bats don't tell. to and fro and little bats don't tell.
Cissy Caffrey whistled, imitating the boys in the football field to show Cissy Caffrey whistled, imitating the boys in the football field to show
what a great person she was: and then she cried: what a great person she was: and then she cried:
--Gerty! Gerty! We're going. Come on. We can see from farther up. --Gerty! Gerty! We're going. Come on. We can see from farther up.
Gerty had an idea, one of love's little ruses. She slipped a hand into Gerty had an idea, one of love's little ruses. She slipped a hand into
her kerchief pocket and took out the wadding and waved in reply of course her kerchief pocket and took out the wadding and waved in reply of course
without letting him and then slipped it back. Wonder if he's too far to. without letting him and then slipped it back. Wonder if he's too far to.
She rose. Was it goodbye? No. She had to go but they would meet again, She rose. Was it goodbye? No. She had to go but they would meet again,
there, and she would dream of that till then, tomorrow, of her dream of there, and she would dream of that till then, tomorrow, of her dream of
yester eve. She drew herself up to her full height. Their souls met in a yester eve. She drew herself up to her full height. Their souls met in a
last lingering glance and the eyes that reached her heart, full of a last lingering glance and the eyes that reached her heart, full of a
strange shining, hung enraptured on her sweet flowerlike face. She half strange shining, hung enraptured on her sweet flowerlike face. She half
smiled at him wanly, a sweet forgiving smile, a smile that verged on smiled at him wanly, a sweet forgiving smile, a smile that verged on
tears, and then they parted. tears, and then they parted.
Slowly, without looking back she went down the uneven strand to Slowly, without looking back she went down the uneven strand to
Cissy, to Edy to Jacky and Tommy Caffrey, to little baby Boardman. It was Cissy, to Edy to Jacky and Tommy Caffrey, to little baby Boardman. It was
darker now and there were stones and bits of wood on the strand and slippy darker now and there were stones and bits of wood on the strand and slippy
seaweed. She walked with a certain quiet dignity characteristic of her but seaweed. She walked with a certain quiet dignity characteristic of her but
with care and very slowly because--because Gerty MacDowell was ... with care and very slowly because--because Gerty MacDowell was ...
Tight boots? No. She's lame! O! Tight boots? No. She's lame! O!
Mr Bloom watched her as she limped away. Poor girl! That's why she's left Mr Bloom watched her as she limped away. Poor girl! That's why she's left
on the shelf and the others did a sprint. Thought something was wrong by on the shelf and the others did a sprint. Thought something was wrong by
the cut of her jib. Jilted beauty. A defect is ten times worse in a woman. the cut of her jib. Jilted beauty. A defect is ten times worse in a woman.
But makes them polite. Glad I didn't know it when she was on show. Hot But makes them polite. Glad I didn't know it when she was on show. Hot
little devil all the same. I wouldn't mind. Curiosity like a nun or a little devil all the same. I wouldn't mind. Curiosity like a nun or a
negress or a girl with glasses. That squinty one is delicate. Near her negress or a girl with glasses. That squinty one is delicate. Near her
monthlies, I expect, makes them feel ticklish. I have such a bad headache monthlies, I expect, makes them feel ticklish. I have such a bad headache
today. Where did I put the letter? Yes, all right. All kinds of crazy today. Where did I put the letter? Yes, all right. All kinds of crazy
longings. Licking pennies. Girl in Tranquilla convent that nun told longings. Licking pennies. Girl in Tranquilla convent that nun told
me liked to smell rock oil. Virgins go mad in the end I suppose. me liked to smell rock oil. Virgins go mad in the end I suppose.
Sister? How many women in Dublin have it today? Martha, she. Something Sister? How many women in Dublin have it today? Martha, she. Something
in the air. That's the moon. But then why don't all women menstruate in the air. That's the moon. But then why don't all women menstruate
at the same time with the same moon, I mean? Depends on the time at the same time with the same moon, I mean? Depends on the time
they were born I suppose. Or all start scratch then get out of step. they were born I suppose. Or all start scratch then get out of step.
Sometimes Molly and Milly together. Anyhow I got the best of that. Sometimes Molly and Milly together. Anyhow I got the best of that.
Damned glad I didn't do it in the bath this morning over her silly Damned glad I didn't do it in the bath this morning over her silly
I will punish you letter. Made up for that tramdriver this morning. I will punish you letter. Made up for that tramdriver this morning.
That gouger M'Coy stopping me to say nothing. And his wife That gouger M'Coy stopping me to say nothing. And his wife
engagement in the country valise, voice like a pickaxe. Thankful for small engagement in the country valise, voice like a pickaxe. Thankful for small
mercies. Cheap too. Yours for the asking. Because they want it themselves. mercies. Cheap too. Yours for the asking. Because they want it themselves.
Their natural craving. Shoals of them every evening poured out of offices. Their natural craving. Shoals of them every evening poured out of offices.
Reserve better. Don't want it they throw it at you. Catch em alive, O. Reserve better. Don't want it they throw it at you. Catch em alive, O.
Pity they can't see themselves. A dream of wellfilled hose. Where was Pity they can't see themselves. A dream of wellfilled hose. Where was
that? Ah, yes. Mutoscope pictures in Capel street: for men only. Peeping that? Ah, yes. Mutoscope pictures in Capel street: for men only. Peeping
Tom. Willy's hat and what the girls did with it. Do they snapshot Tom. Willy's hat and what the girls did with it. Do they snapshot
those girls or is it all a fake? LINGERIE does it. Felt for the those girls or is it all a fake? LINGERIE does it. Felt for the
curves inside her DESHABILLE. Excites them also when they're. I'm all curves inside her DESHABILLE. Excites them also when they're. I'm all
clean come and dirty me. And they like dressing one another for the clean come and dirty me. And they like dressing one another for the
sacrifice. Milly delighted with Molly's new blouse. At first. sacrifice. Milly delighted with Molly's new blouse. At first.
Very gratefully, with grateful appreciation, with sincere appreciative Very gratefully, with grateful appreciation, with sincere appreciative
gratitude, in appreciatively grateful sincerity of regret, he declined. gratitude, in appreciatively grateful sincerity of regret, he declined.
Did their conversation on the subject of these reminiscences reveal a Did their conversation on the subject of these reminiscences reveal a
third connecting link between them? third connecting link between them?
Mrs Riordan (Dante), a widow of independent means, had resided in the Mrs Riordan (Dante), a widow of independent means, had resided in the
house of Stephen's parents from 1 September 1888 to 29 December 1891 and house of Stephen's parents from 1 September 1888 to 29 December 1891 and
had also resided during the years 1892, 1893 and 1894 in the City Arms had also resided during the years 1892, 1893 and 1894 in the City Arms
Hotel owned by Elizabeth O'Dowd of 54 Prussia street where, during parts Hotel owned by Elizabeth O'Dowd of 54 Prussia street where, during parts
of the years 1893 and 1894, she had been a constant informant of Bloom of the years 1893 and 1894, she had been a constant informant of Bloom
who resided also in the same hotel, being at that time a clerk in the who resided also in the same hotel, being at that time a clerk in the
employment of Joseph Cuffe of 5 Smithfield for the superintendence of employment of Joseph Cuffe of 5 Smithfield for the superintendence of
sales in the adjacent Dublin Cattle market on the North Circular road. sales in the adjacent Dublin Cattle market on the North Circular road.
Had he performed any special corporal work of mercy for her? Had he performed any special corporal work of mercy for her?
He had sometimes propelled her on warm summer evenings, an infirm widow He had sometimes propelled her on warm summer evenings, an infirm widow
of independent, if limited, means, in her convalescent bathchair with of independent, if limited, means, in her convalescent bathchair with
slow revolutions of its wheels as far as the corner of the North Circular slow revolutions of its wheels as far as the corner of the North Circular
road opposite Mr Gavin Low's place of business where she had remained for road opposite Mr Gavin Low's place of business where she had remained for
a certain time scanning through his onelensed binocular fieldglasses a certain time scanning through his onelensed binocular fieldglasses
unrecognisable citizens on tramcars, roadster bicycles equipped with unrecognisable citizens on tramcars, roadster bicycles equipped with
inflated pneumatic tyres, hackney carriages, tandems, private and hired inflated pneumatic tyres, hackney carriages, tandems, private and hired
landaus, dogcarts, ponytraps and brakes passing from the city to the landaus, dogcarts, ponytraps and brakes passing from the city to the
Phoenix Park and vice versa. Phoenix Park and vice versa.
Why could he then support that his vigil with the greater equanimity? Why could he then support that his vigil with the greater equanimity?
Because in middle youth he had often sat observing through a rondel of Because in middle youth he had often sat observing through a rondel of
bossed glass of a multicoloured pane the spectacle offered with continual bossed glass of a multicoloured pane the spectacle offered with continual
changes of the thoroughfare without, pedestrians, quadrupeds, changes of the thoroughfare without, pedestrians, quadrupeds,
velocipedes, vehicles, passing slowly, quickly, evenly, round and round velocipedes, vehicles, passing slowly, quickly, evenly, round and round
and round the rim of a round and round precipitous globe. and round the rim of a round and round precipitous globe.
What distinct different memories had each of her now eight years What distinct different memories had each of her now eight years
deceased? deceased?
The older, her bezique cards and counters, her Skye terrier, her The older, her bezique cards and counters, her Skye terrier, her
suppositious wealth, her lapses of responsiveness and incipient catarrhal suppositious wealth, her lapses of responsiveness and incipient catarrhal
deafness: the younger, her lamp of colza oil before the statue of the deafness: the younger, her lamp of colza oil before the statue of the
Immaculate Conception, her green and maroon brushes for Charles Stewart Immaculate Conception, her green and maroon brushes for Charles Stewart
Parnell and for Michael Davitt, her tissue papers. Parnell and for Michael Davitt, her tissue papers.
Were there no means still remaining to him to achieve the rejuvenation Were there no means still remaining to him to achieve the rejuvenation
which these reminiscences divulged to a younger companion rendered the which these reminiscences divulged to a younger companion rendered the
more desirable? more desirable?
The indoor exercises, formerly intermittently practised, subsequently The indoor exercises, formerly intermittently practised, subsequently
abandoned, prescribed in Eugen Sandow's PHYSICAL STRENGTH AND HOW TO abandoned, prescribed in Eugen Sandow's PHYSICAL STRENGTH AND HOW TO
OBTAIN IT which, designed particularly for commercial men engaged in OBTAIN IT which, designed particularly for commercial men engaged in
sedentary occupations, were to be made with mental concentration in front sedentary occupations, were to be made with mental concentration in front
of a mirror so as to bring into play the various families of muscles and of a mirror so as to bring into play the various families of muscles and
produce successively a pleasant rigidity, a more pleasant relaxation and produce successively a pleasant rigidity, a more pleasant relaxation and
the most pleasant repristination of juvenile agility. the most pleasant repristination of juvenile agility.
Had any special agility been his in earlier youth? Had any special agility been his in earlier youth?
Though ringweight lifting had been beyond his strength and the full Though ringweight lifting had been beyond his strength and the full
circle gyration beyond his courage yet as a High school scholar he had circle gyration beyond his courage yet as a High school scholar he had
excelled in his stable and protracted execution of the half lever excelled in his stable and protracted execution of the half lever
movement on the parallel bars in consequence of his abnormally developed movement on the parallel bars in consequence of his abnormally developed
abdominal muscles. abdominal muscles.
Did either openly allude to their racial difference? Did either openly allude to their racial difference?
Neither. Neither.
What, reduced to their simplest reciprocal form, were Bloom's thoughts What, reduced to their simplest reciprocal form, were Bloom's thoughts
about Stephen's thoughts about Bloom and about Stephen's thoughts about about Stephen's thoughts about Bloom and about Stephen's thoughts about
Bloom's thoughts about Stephen? Bloom's thoughts about Stephen?
He thought that he thought that he was a jew whereas he knew that he knew He thought that he thought that he was a jew whereas he knew that he knew
that he knew that he was not. that he knew that he was not.
What, the enclosures of reticence removed, were their respective What, the enclosures of reticence removed, were their respective
parentages? parentages?
Bloom, only born male transubstantial heir of Rudolf Virag (subsequently Bloom, only born male transubstantial heir of Rudolf Virag (subsequently
Rudolph Bloom) of Szombathely, Vienna, Budapest, Milan, London and Dublin Rudolph Bloom) of Szombathely, Vienna, Budapest, Milan, London and Dublin
and of Ellen Higgins, second daughter of Julius Higgins (born Karoly) and and of Ellen Higgins, second daughter of Julius Higgins (born Karoly) and
Fanny Higgins (born Hegarty). Stephen, eldest surviving male Fanny Higgins (born Hegarty). Stephen, eldest surviving male
consubstantial heir of Simon Dedalus of Cork and Dublin and of Mary, consubstantial heir of Simon Dedalus of Cork and Dublin and of Mary,
daughter of Richard and Christina Goulding (born Grier). daughter of Richard and Christina Goulding (born Grier).
Had Bloom and Stephen been baptised, and where and by whom, cleric or Had Bloom and Stephen been baptised, and where and by whom, cleric or
layman? layman?
Bloom (three times), by the reverend Mr Gilmer Johnston M. A., alone, in Bloom (three times), by the reverend Mr Gilmer Johnston M. A., alone, in
the protestant church of Saint Nicholas Without, Coombe, by James the protestant church of Saint Nicholas Without, Coombe, by James
O'Connor, Philip Gilligan and James Fitzpatrick, together, under a pump O'Connor, Philip Gilligan and James Fitzpatrick, together, under a pump
in the village of Swords, and by the reverend Charles Malone C. C., in in the village of Swords, and by the reverend Charles Malone C. C., in
the church of the Three Patrons, Rathgar. Stephen (once) by the reverend the church of the Three Patrons, Rathgar. Stephen (once) by the reverend
Charles Malone C. C., alone, in the church of the Three Patrons, Rathgar. Charles Malone C. C., alone, in the church of the Three Patrons, Rathgar.
Did they find their educational careers similar? Did they find their educational careers similar?
Substituting Stephen for Bloom Stoom would have passed successively Substituting Stephen for Bloom Stoom would have passed successively
through a dame's school and the high school. Substituting Bloom for through a dame's school and the high school. Substituting Bloom for
Stephen Blephen would have passed successively through the preparatory, Stephen Blephen would have passed successively through the preparatory,
junior, middle and senior grades of the intermediate and through the junior, middle and senior grades of the intermediate and through the
matriculation, first arts, second arts and arts degree courses of the matriculation, first arts, second arts and arts degree courses of the
royal university. royal university.
Why did Bloom refrain from stating that he had frequented the university Why did Bloom refrain from stating that he had frequented the university
of life? of life?
Because of his fluctuating incertitude as to whether this observation had Because of his fluctuating incertitude as to whether this observation had
or had not been already made by him to Stephen or by Stephen to him. or had not been already made by him to Stephen or by Stephen to him.
What two temperaments did they individually represent? What two temperaments did they individually represent?
The scientific. The artistic. The scientific. The artistic.
What proofs did Bloom adduce to prove that his tendency was towards What proofs did Bloom adduce to prove that his tendency was towards
applied, rather than towards pure, science? applied, rather than towards pure, science?
Certain possible inventions of which he had cogitated when reclining in a Certain possible inventions of which he had cogitated when reclining in a
state of supine repletion to aid digestion, stimulated by his state of supine repletion to aid digestion, stimulated by his
appreciation of the importance of inventions now common but once appreciation of the importance of inventions now common but once
revolutionary, for example, the aeronautic parachute, the reflecting revolutionary, for example, the aeronautic parachute, the reflecting
telescope, the spiral corkscrew, the safety pin, the mineral water telescope, the spiral corkscrew, the safety pin, the mineral water
siphon, the canal lock with winch and sluice, the suction pump. siphon, the canal lock with winch and sluice, the suction pump.
Were these inventions principally intended for an improved scheme of Were these inventions principally intended for an improved scheme of
kindergarten? kindergarten?
Yes, rendering obsolete popguns, elastic airbladders, games of hazard, Yes, rendering obsolete popguns, elastic airbladders, games of hazard,
catapults. They comprised astronomical kaleidoscopes exhibiting the catapults. They comprised astronomical kaleidoscopes exhibiting the
twelve constellations of the zodiac from Aries to Pisces, miniature twelve constellations of the zodiac from Aries to Pisces, miniature
mechanical orreries, arithmetical gelatine lozenges, geometrical to mechanical orreries, arithmetical gelatine lozenges, geometrical to
correspond with zoological biscuits, globemap playing balls, historically correspond with zoological biscuits, globemap playing balls, historically
costumed dolls. costumed dolls.
What also stimulated him in his cogitations? What also stimulated him in his cogitations?
The financial success achieved by Ephraim Marks and Charles A. James, the The financial success achieved by Ephraim Marks and Charles A. James, the
former by his 1d bazaar at 42 George's street, south, the latter at his former by his 1d bazaar at 42 George's street, south, the latter at his
6-1/2d shop and world's fancy fair and waxwork exhibition at 30 Henry 6-1/2d shop and world's fancy fair and waxwork exhibition at 30 Henry
street, admission 2d, children 1d: and the infinite possibilities street, admission 2d, children 1d: and the infinite possibilities
hitherto unexploited of the modern art of advertisement if condensed in hitherto unexploited of the modern art of advertisement if condensed in
triliteral monoideal symbols, vertically of maximum visibility (divined), triliteral monoideal symbols, vertically of maximum visibility (divined),
horizontally of maximum legibility (deciphered) and of magnetising horizontally of maximum legibility (deciphered) and of magnetising
efficacy to arrest involuntary attention, to interest, to convince, to efficacy to arrest involuntary attention, to interest, to convince, to
decide. decide.
Such as? Such as?
K. II. Kino's 11/- Trousers. House of Keys. Alexander J. Keyes. K. II. Kino's 11/- Trousers. House of Keys. Alexander J. Keyes.
Such as not? Such as not?
Look at this long candle. Calculate when it burns out and you receive Look at this long candle. Calculate when it burns out and you receive
gratis 1 pair of our special non-compo boots, guaranteed 1 candle power. gratis 1 pair of our special non-compo boots, guaranteed 1 candle power.
Address: Barclay and Cook, 18 Talbot street. Address: Barclay and Cook, 18 Talbot street.
Bacilikil (Insect Powder). Veribest (Boot Blacking). Uwantit (Combined Bacilikil (Insect Powder). Veribest (Boot Blacking). Uwantit (Combined
pocket twoblade penknife with corkscrew, nailfile and pipecleaner). pocket twoblade penknife with corkscrew, nailfile and pipecleaner).
Such as never? Such as never?
What is home without Plumtree's Potted Meat? What is home without Plumtree's Potted Meat?
Incomplete. Incomplete.
With it an abode of bliss. With it an abode of bliss.
Manufactured by George Plumtree, 23 Merchants' quay, Dublin, put up in 4 Manufactured by George Plumtree, 23 Merchants' quay, Dublin, put up in 4
oz pots, and inserted by Councillor Joseph P. Nannetti, M. P., Rotunda oz pots, and inserted by Councillor Joseph P. Nannetti, M. P., Rotunda
Ward, 19 Hardwicke street, under the obituary notices and anniversaries Ward, 19 Hardwicke street, under the obituary notices and anniversaries
of deceases. The name on the label is Plumtree. A plumtree in a meatpot, of deceases. The name on the label is Plumtree. A plumtree in a meatpot,
registered trade mark. Beware of imitations. Peatmot. Trumplee. Moutpat. registered trade mark. Beware of imitations. Peatmot. Trumplee. Moutpat.
Plamtroo. Plamtroo.
Which example did he adduce to induce Stephen to deduce that originality, Which example did he adduce to induce Stephen to deduce that originality,
though producing its own reward, does not invariably conduce to success? though producing its own reward, does not invariably conduce to success?
His own ideated and rejected project of an illuminated showcart, drawn by His own ideated and rejected project of an illuminated showcart, drawn by
a beast of burden, in which two smartly dressed girls were to be seated a beast of burden, in which two smartly dressed girls were to be seated
engaged in writing. engaged in writing.
What suggested scene was then constructed by Stephen? What suggested scene was then constructed by Stephen?
Solitary hotel in mountain pass. Autumn. Twilight. Fire lit. In dark Solitary hotel in mountain pass. Autumn. Twilight. Fire lit. In dark
corner young man seated. Young woman enters. Restless. Solitary. She corner young man seated. Young woman enters. Restless. Solitary. She
sits. She goes to window. She stands. She sits. Twilight. She thinks. On sits. She goes to window. She stands. She sits. Twilight. She thinks. On
solitary hotel paper she writes. She thinks. She writes. She sighs. solitary hotel paper she writes. She thinks. She writes. She sighs.
Wheels and hoofs. She hurries out. He comes from his dark corner. He Wheels and hoofs. She hurries out. He comes from his dark corner. He
seizes solitary paper. He holds it towards fire. Twilight. He reads. seizes solitary paper. He holds it towards fire. Twilight. He reads.
Solitary. Solitary.
What? What?
In sloping, upright and backhands: Queen's Hotel, Queen's Hotel, Queen's In sloping, upright and backhands: Queen's Hotel, Queen's Hotel, Queen's
Hotel. Queen's Ho... Hotel. Queen's Ho...
What suggested scene was then reconstructed by Bloom? What suggested scene was then reconstructed by Bloom?
The Queen's Hotel, Ennis, county Clare, where Rudolph Bloom (Rudolf The Queen's Hotel, Ennis, county Clare, where Rudolph Bloom (Rudolf
Virag) died on the evening of the 27 June 1886, at some hour unstated, in Virag) died on the evening of the 27 June 1886, at some hour unstated, in
consequence of an overdose of monkshood (aconite) selfadministered in the consequence of an overdose of monkshood (aconite) selfadministered in the
form of a neuralgic liniment composed of 2 parts of aconite liniment to I form of a neuralgic liniment composed of 2 parts of aconite liniment to I
of chloroform liniment (purchased by him at 10.20 a.m. on the morning of of chloroform liniment (purchased by him at 10.20 a.m. on the morning of
27 June 1886 at the medical hall of Francis Dennehy, 17 Church street, 27 June 1886 at the medical hall of Francis Dennehy, 17 Church street,
Ennis) after having, though not in consequence of having, purchased at Ennis) after having, though not in consequence of having, purchased at
3.15 p.m. on the afternoon of 27 June 1886 a new boater straw hat, extra 3.15 p.m. on the afternoon of 27 June 1886 a new boater straw hat, extra
smart (after having, though not in consequence of having, purchased at smart (after having, though not in consequence of having, purchased at
Faces of Paris men go by, their wellpleased pleasers, curled Faces of Paris men go by, their wellpleased pleasers, curled
conquistadores. conquistadores.
Noon slumbers. Kevin Egan rolls gunpowder cigarettes through Noon slumbers. Kevin Egan rolls gunpowder cigarettes through
fingers smeared with printer's ink, sipping his green fairy as Patrice his fingers smeared with printer's ink, sipping his green fairy as Patrice his
white. About us gobblers fork spiced beans down their gullets. UN DEMI white. About us gobblers fork spiced beans down their gullets. UN DEMI
SETIER! A jet of coffee steam from the burnished caldron. She serves me at SETIER! A jet of coffee steam from the burnished caldron. She serves me at
his beck. IL EST IRLANDAIS. HOLLANDAIS? NON FROMAGE. DEUX IRLANDAIS, NOUS, his beck. IL EST IRLANDAIS. HOLLANDAIS? NON FROMAGE. DEUX IRLANDAIS, NOUS,
IRLANDE, VOUS SAVEZ AH, OUI! She thought you wanted a cheese HOLLANDAIS. IRLANDE, VOUS SAVEZ AH, OUI! She thought you wanted a cheese HOLLANDAIS.
Your postprandial, do you know that word? Postprandial. There was a Your postprandial, do you know that word? Postprandial. There was a
fellow I knew once in Barcelona, queer fellow, used to call it his fellow I knew once in Barcelona, queer fellow, used to call it his
postprandial. Well: SLAINTE! Around the slabbed tables the tangle of wined postprandial. Well: SLAINTE! Around the slabbed tables the tangle of wined
breaths and grumbling gorges. His breath hangs over our saucestained breaths and grumbling gorges. His breath hangs over our saucestained
plates, the green fairy's fang thrusting between his lips. Of Ireland, the plates, the green fairy's fang thrusting between his lips. Of Ireland, the
Dalcassians, of hopes, conspiracies, of Arthur Griffith now, A E, Dalcassians, of hopes, conspiracies, of Arthur Griffith now, A E,
pimander, good shepherd of men. To yoke me as his yokefellow, our crimes pimander, good shepherd of men. To yoke me as his yokefellow, our crimes
our common cause. You're your father's son. I know the voice. His fustian our common cause. You're your father's son. I know the voice. His fustian
shirt, sanguineflowered, trembles its Spanish tassels at his secrets. M. shirt, sanguineflowered, trembles its Spanish tassels at his secrets. M.
Drumont, famous journalist, Drumont, know what he called queen Drumont, famous journalist, Drumont, know what he called queen
Victoria? Old hag with the yellow teeth. VIEILLE OGRESSE with the DENTS Victoria? Old hag with the yellow teeth. VIEILLE OGRESSE with the DENTS
JAUNES. Maud Gonne, beautiful woman, LA PATRIE, M. Millevoye, Felix JAUNES. Maud Gonne, beautiful woman, LA PATRIE, M. Millevoye, Felix
Faure, know how he died? Licentious men. The froeken, BONNE A TOUT FAIRE, Faure, know how he died? Licentious men. The froeken, BONNE A TOUT FAIRE,
who rubs male nakedness in the bath at Upsala. MOI FAIRE, she said, TOUS who rubs male nakedness in the bath at Upsala. MOI FAIRE, she said, TOUS
LES MESSIEURS. Not this MONSIEUR, I said. Most licentious custom. Bath a LES MESSIEURS. Not this MONSIEUR, I said. Most licentious custom. Bath a
most private thing. I wouldn't let my brother, not even my own brother, most private thing. I wouldn't let my brother, not even my own brother,
most lascivious thing. Green eyes, I see you. Fang, I feel. Lascivious most lascivious thing. Green eyes, I see you. Fang, I feel. Lascivious
people. people.
The blue fuse burns deadly between hands and burns clear. Loose The blue fuse burns deadly between hands and burns clear. Loose
tobaccoshreds catch fire: a flame and acrid smoke light our corner. Raw tobaccoshreds catch fire: a flame and acrid smoke light our corner. Raw
facebones under his peep of day boy's hat. How the head centre got away, facebones under his peep of day boy's hat. How the head centre got away,
authentic version. Got up as a young bride, man, veil, orangeblossoms, authentic version. Got up as a young bride, man, veil, orangeblossoms,
drove out the road to Malahide. Did, faith. Of lost leaders, the betrayed, drove out the road to Malahide. Did, faith. Of lost leaders, the betrayed,
wild escapes. Disguises, clutched at, gone, not here. wild escapes. Disguises, clutched at, gone, not here.
Spurned lover. I was a strapping young gossoon at that time, I tell Spurned lover. I was a strapping young gossoon at that time, I tell
you. I'll show you my likeness one day. I was, faith. Lover, for her love you. I'll show you my likeness one day. I was, faith. Lover, for her love
he prowled with colonel Richard Burke, tanist of his sept, under the walls he prowled with colonel Richard Burke, tanist of his sept, under the walls
of Clerkenwell and, crouching, saw a flame of vengeance hurl them upward of Clerkenwell and, crouching, saw a flame of vengeance hurl them upward
in the fog. Shattered glass and toppling masonry. In gay Paree he hides, in the fog. Shattered glass and toppling masonry. In gay Paree he hides,
Egan of Paris, unsought by any save by me. Making his day's stations, the Egan of Paris, unsought by any save by me. Making his day's stations, the
dingy printingcase, his three taverns, the Montmartre lair he sleeps short dingy printingcase, his three taverns, the Montmartre lair he sleeps short
night in, rue de la Goutte-d'Or, damascened with flyblown faces of the night in, rue de la Goutte-d'Or, damascened with flyblown faces of the
gone. Loveless, landless, wifeless. She is quite nicey comfy without her gone. Loveless, landless, wifeless. She is quite nicey comfy without her
outcast man, madame in rue Git-le-Coeur, canary and two buck lodgers. outcast man, madame in rue Git-le-Coeur, canary and two buck lodgers.
Peachy cheeks, a zebra skirt, frisky as a young thing's. Spurned and Peachy cheeks, a zebra skirt, frisky as a young thing's. Spurned and
undespairing. Tell Pat you saw me, won't you? I wanted to get poor Pat a undespairing. Tell Pat you saw me, won't you? I wanted to get poor Pat a
job one time. MON FILS, soldier of France. I taught him to sing THE BOYS job one time. MON FILS, soldier of France. I taught him to sing THE BOYS
OF KILKENNY ARE STOUT ROARING BLADES. Know that old lay? I taught Patrice OF KILKENNY ARE STOUT ROARING BLADES. Know that old lay? I taught Patrice
that. Old Kilkenny: saint Canice, Strongbow's castle on the Nore. Goes that. Old Kilkenny: saint Canice, Strongbow's castle on the Nore. Goes
like this. O, O. He takes me, Napper Tandy, by the hand. like this. O, O. He takes me, Napper Tandy, by the hand.
    O, O THE BOYS OF     O, O THE BOYS OF
    KILKENNY ...     KILKENNY ...
Weak wasting hand on mine. They have forgotten Kevin Egan, not he Weak wasting hand on mine. They have forgotten Kevin Egan, not he
them. Remembering thee, O Sion. them. Remembering thee, O Sion.
He had come nearer the edge of the sea and wet sand slapped his He had come nearer the edge of the sea and wet sand slapped his
boots. The new air greeted him, harping in wild nerves, wind of wild air boots. The new air greeted him, harping in wild nerves, wind of wild air
of seeds of brightness. Here, I am not walking out to the Kish lightship, of seeds of brightness. Here, I am not walking out to the Kish lightship,
am I? He stood suddenly, his feet beginning to sink slowly in the quaking am I? He stood suddenly, his feet beginning to sink slowly in the quaking
soil. Turn back. soil. Turn back.
Turning, he scanned the shore south, his feet sinking again slowly in Turning, he scanned the shore south, his feet sinking again slowly in
new sockets. The cold domed room of the tower waits. Through the new sockets. The cold domed room of the tower waits. Through the
barbacans the shafts of light are moving ever, slowly ever as my feet are barbacans the shafts of light are moving ever, slowly ever as my feet are
sinking, creeping duskward over the dial floor. Blue dusk, nightfall, deep sinking, creeping duskward over the dial floor. Blue dusk, nightfall, deep
blue night. In the darkness of the dome they wait, their pushedback blue night. In the darkness of the dome they wait, their pushedback
chairs, my obelisk valise, around a board of abandoned platters. Who to chairs, my obelisk valise, around a board of abandoned platters. Who to
clear it? He has the key. I will not sleep there when this night comes. clear it? He has the key. I will not sleep there when this night comes.
A shut door of a silent tower, entombing their--blind bodies, the A shut door of a silent tower, entombing their--blind bodies, the
panthersahib and his pointer. Call: no answer. He lifted his feet up from panthersahib and his pointer. Call: no answer. He lifted his feet up from
the suck and turned back by the mole of boulders. Take all, keep all. My the suck and turned back by the mole of boulders. Take all, keep all. My
soul walks with me, form of forms. So in the moon's midwatches I pace the soul walks with me, form of forms. So in the moon's midwatches I pace the
path above the rocks, in sable silvered, hearing Elsinore's tempting path above the rocks, in sable silvered, hearing Elsinore's tempting
flood. flood.
The flood is following me. I can watch it flow past from here. Get The flood is following me. I can watch it flow past from here. Get
back then by the Poolbeg road to the strand there. He climbed over the back then by the Poolbeg road to the strand there. He climbed over the
sedge and eely oarweeds and sat on a stool of rock, resting his ashplant sedge and eely oarweeds and sat on a stool of rock, resting his ashplant
in a grike. in a grike.
A bloated carcass of a dog lay lolled on bladderwrack. Before him the A bloated carcass of a dog lay lolled on bladderwrack. Before him the
gunwale of a boat, sunk in sand. UN COCHE ENSABLE Louis Veuillot called gunwale of a boat, sunk in sand. UN COCHE ENSABLE Louis Veuillot called
Gautier's prose. These heavy sands are language tide and wind have silted Gautier's prose. These heavy sands are language tide and wind have silted
here. And these, the stoneheaps of dead builders, a warren of weasel rats. here. And these, the stoneheaps of dead builders, a warren of weasel rats.
Hide gold there. Try it. You have some. Sands and stones. Heavy of the Hide gold there. Try it. You have some. Sands and stones. Heavy of the
past. Sir Lout's toys. Mind you don't get one bang on the ear. I'm the past. Sir Lout's toys. Mind you don't get one bang on the ear. I'm the
bloody well gigant rolls all them bloody well boulders, bones for my bloody well gigant rolls all them bloody well boulders, bones for my
steppingstones. Feefawfum. I zmellz de bloodz odz an Iridzman. steppingstones. Feefawfum. I zmellz de bloodz odz an Iridzman.
A point, live dog, grew into sight running across the sweep of sand. A point, live dog, grew into sight running across the sweep of sand.
Lord, is he going to attack me? Respect his liberty. You will not be Lord, is he going to attack me? Respect his liberty. You will not be
master of others or their slave. I have my stick. Sit tight. From farther master of others or their slave. I have my stick. Sit tight. From farther
away, walking shoreward across from the crested tide, figures, two. The away, walking shoreward across from the crested tide, figures, two. The
two maries. They have tucked it safe mong the bulrushes. Peekaboo. I see two maries. They have tucked it safe mong the bulrushes. Peekaboo. I see
you. No, the dog. He is running back to them. Who? you. No, the dog. He is running back to them. Who?
Galleys of the Lochlanns ran here to beach, in quest of prey, their Galleys of the Lochlanns ran here to beach, in quest of prey, their
bloodbeaked prows riding low on a molten pewter surf. Dane vikings, torcs bloodbeaked prows riding low on a molten pewter surf. Dane vikings, torcs
of tomahawks aglitter on their breasts when Malachi wore the collar of of tomahawks aglitter on their breasts when Malachi wore the collar of
gold. A school of turlehide whales stranded in hot noon, spouting, gold. A school of turlehide whales stranded in hot noon, spouting,
hobbling in the shallows. Then from the starving cagework city a horde of hobbling in the shallows. Then from the starving cagework city a horde of
jerkined dwarfs, my people, with flayers' knives, running, scaling, jerkined dwarfs, my people, with flayers' knives, running, scaling,
hacking in green blubbery whalemeat. Famine, plague and slaughters. Their hacking in green blubbery whalemeat. Famine, plague and slaughters. Their
blood is in me, their lusts my waves. I moved among them on the frozen blood is in me, their lusts my waves. I moved among them on the frozen
Liffey, that I, a changeling, among the spluttering resin fires. I spoke Liffey, that I, a changeling, among the spluttering resin fires. I spoke
to no-one: none to me. to no-one: none to me.
The dog's bark ran towards him, stopped, ran back. Dog of my The dog's bark ran towards him, stopped, ran back. Dog of my
enemy. I just simply stood pale, silent, bayed about. TERRIBILIA MEDITANS. enemy. I just simply stood pale, silent, bayed about. TERRIBILIA MEDITANS.
A primrose doublet, fortune's knave, smiled on my fear. For that are you A primrose doublet, fortune's knave, smiled on my fear. For that are you
pining, the bark of their applause? Pretenders: live their lives. The pining, the bark of their applause? Pretenders: live their lives. The
Bruce's brother, Thomas Fitzgerald, silken knight, Perkin Warbeck, York's Bruce's brother, Thomas Fitzgerald, silken knight, Perkin Warbeck, York's
false scion, in breeches of silk of whiterose ivory, wonder of a day, and false scion, in breeches of silk of whiterose ivory, wonder of a day, and
Lambert Simnel, with a tail of nans and sutlers, a scullion crowned. All Lambert Simnel, with a tail of nans and sutlers, a scullion crowned. All
kings' sons. Paradise of pretenders then and now. He saved men from kings' sons. Paradise of pretenders then and now. He saved men from
drowning and you shake at a cur's yelping. But the courtiers who mocked drowning and you shake at a cur's yelping. But the courtiers who mocked
Guido in Or san Michele were in their own house. House of ... We don't Guido in Or san Michele were in their own house. House of ... We don't
want any of your medieval abstrusiosities. Would you do what he did? A want any of your medieval abstrusiosities. Would you do what he did? A
boat would be near, a lifebuoy. NATURLICH, put there for you. Would you or boat would be near, a lifebuoy. NATURLICH, put there for you. Would you or
would you not? The man that was drowned nine days ago off Maiden's rock. would you not? The man that was drowned nine days ago off Maiden's rock.
They are waiting for him now. The truth, spit it out. I would want to. They are waiting for him now. The truth, spit it out. I would want to.
I would try. I am not a strong swimmer. Water cold soft. When I put my I would try. I am not a strong swimmer. Water cold soft. When I put my
face into it in the basin at Clongowes. Can't see! Who's behind me? Out face into it in the basin at Clongowes. Can't see! Who's behind me? Out
quickly, quickly! Do you see the tide flowing quickly in on all sides, quickly, quickly! Do you see the tide flowing quickly in on all sides,
sheeting the lows of sand quickly, shellcocoacoloured? If I had land under sheeting the lows of sand quickly, shellcocoacoloured? If I had land under
my feet. I want his life still to be his, mine to be mine. A drowning man. my feet. I want his life still to be his, mine to be mine. A drowning man.
His human eyes scream to me out of horror of his death. I ... With him His human eyes scream to me out of horror of his death. I ... With him
together down ... I could not save her. Waters: bitter death: lost. together down ... I could not save her. Waters: bitter death: lost.
A woman and a man. I see her skirties. Pinned up, I bet. A woman and a man. I see her skirties. Pinned up, I bet.
Their dog ambled about a bank of dwindling sand, trotting, sniffing Their dog ambled about a bank of dwindling sand, trotting, sniffing
on all sides. Looking for something lost in a past life. Suddenly he made on all sides. Looking for something lost in a past life. Suddenly he made
off like a bounding hare, ears flung back, chasing the shadow of a off like a bounding hare, ears flung back, chasing the shadow of a
lowskimming gull. The man's shrieked whistle struck his limp ears. He lowskimming gull. The man's shrieked whistle struck his limp ears. He
turned, bounded back, came nearer, trotted on twinkling shanks. On a field turned, bounded back, came nearer, trotted on twinkling shanks. On a field
tenney a buck, trippant, proper, unattired. At the lacefringe of the tide tenney a buck, trippant, proper, unattired. At the lacefringe of the tide
he halted with stiff forehoofs, seawardpointed ears. His snout lifted he halted with stiff forehoofs, seawardpointed ears. His snout lifted
barked at the wavenoise, herds of seamorse. They serpented towards his barked at the wavenoise, herds of seamorse. They serpented towards his
feet, curling, unfurling many crests, every ninth, breaking, plashing, feet, curling, unfurling many crests, every ninth, breaking, plashing,
from far, from farther out, waves and waves. from far, from farther out, waves and waves.
Cocklepickers. They waded a little way in the water and, stooping, Cocklepickers. They waded a little way in the water and, stooping,
soused their bags and, lifting them again, waded out. The dog yelped soused their bags and, lifting them again, waded out. The dog yelped
running to them, reared up and pawed them, dropping on all fours, again running to them, reared up and pawed them, dropping on all fours, again
reared up at them with mute bearish fawning. Unheeded he kept by them as reared up at them with mute bearish fawning. Unheeded he kept by them as
they came towards the drier sand, a rag of wolf's tongue redpanting from they came towards the drier sand, a rag of wolf's tongue redpanting from
his jaws. His speckled body ambled ahead of them and then loped off at a his jaws. His speckled body ambled ahead of them and then loped off at a
calf's gallop. The carcass lay on his path. He stopped, sniffed, stalked calf's gallop. The carcass lay on his path. He stopped, sniffed, stalked
round it, brother, nosing closer, went round it, sniffling rapidly like a round it, brother, nosing closer, went round it, sniffling rapidly like a
dog all over the dead dog's bedraggled fell. Dogskull, dogsniff, eyes on dog all over the dead dog's bedraggled fell. Dogskull, dogsniff, eyes on
the ground, moves to one great goal. Ah, poor dogsbody! Here lies poor the ground, moves to one great goal. Ah, poor dogsbody! Here lies poor
dogsbody's body. dogsbody's body.
--Tatters! Out of that, you mongrel! --Tatters! Out of that, you mongrel!
The cry brought him skulking back to his master and a blunt bootless The cry brought him skulking back to his master and a blunt bootless
kick sent him unscathed across a spit of sand, crouched in flight. He kick sent him unscathed across a spit of sand, crouched in flight. He
slunk back in a curve. Doesn't see me. Along by the edge of the mole he slunk back in a curve. Doesn't see me. Along by the edge of the mole he
lolloped, dawdled, smelt a rock. and from under a cocked hindleg pissed lolloped, dawdled, smelt a rock. and from under a cocked hindleg pissed
against it. He trotted forward and, lifting again his hindleg, pissed against it. He trotted forward and, lifting again his hindleg, pissed
quick short at an unsmelt rock. The simple pleasures of the poor. His quick short at an unsmelt rock. The simple pleasures of the poor. His
hindpaws then scattered the sand: then his forepaws dabbled and delved. hindpaws then scattered the sand: then his forepaws dabbled and delved.
Something he buried there, his grandmother. He rooted in the sand, Something he buried there, his grandmother. He rooted in the sand,
dabbling, delving and stopped to listen to the air, scraped up the sand dabbling, delving and stopped to listen to the air, scraped up the sand
again with a fury of his claws, soon ceasing, a pard, a panther, got in again with a fury of his claws, soon ceasing, a pard, a panther, got in
spousebreach, vulturing the dead. spousebreach, vulturing the dead.
After he woke me last night same dream or was it? Wait. Open After he woke me last night same dream or was it? Wait. Open
hallway. Street of harlots. Remember. Haroun al Raschid. I am almosting hallway. Street of harlots. Remember. Haroun al Raschid. I am almosting
it. That man led me, spoke. I was not afraid. The melon he had he held it. That man led me, spoke. I was not afraid. The melon he had he held
against my face. Smiled: creamfruit smell. That was the rule, said. In. against my face. Smiled: creamfruit smell. That was the rule, said. In.
Come. Red carpet spread. You will see who. Come. Red carpet spread. You will see who.
Shouldering their bags they trudged, the red Egyptians. His blued Shouldering their bags they trudged, the red Egyptians. His blued
feet out of turnedup trousers slapped the clammy sand, a dull brick feet out of turnedup trousers slapped the clammy sand, a dull brick
muffler strangling his unshaven neck. With woman steps she followed: the muffler strangling his unshaven neck. With woman steps she followed: the
ruffian and his strolling mort. Spoils slung at her back. Loose sand and ruffian and his strolling mort. Spoils slung at her back. Loose sand and
shellgrit crusted her bare feet. About her windraw face hair trailed. shellgrit crusted her bare feet. About her windraw face hair trailed.
Behind her lord, his helpmate, bing awast to Romeville. When night hides Behind her lord, his helpmate, bing awast to Romeville. When night hides
her body's flaws calling under her brown shawl from an archway where dogs her body's flaws calling under her brown shawl from an archway where dogs
have mired. Her fancyman is treating two Royal Dublins in O'Loughlin's of have mired. Her fancyman is treating two Royal Dublins in O'Loughlin's of
Blackpitts. Buss her, wap in rogues' rum lingo, for, O, my dimber wapping Blackpitts. Buss her, wap in rogues' rum lingo, for, O, my dimber wapping
dell! A shefiend's whiteness under her rancid rags. Fumbally's lane that dell! A shefiend's whiteness under her rancid rags. Fumbally's lane that
night: the tanyard smells. night: the tanyard smells.
    WHITE THY FAMBLES, RED THY GAN     WHITE THY FAMBLES, RED THY GAN
    AND THY QUARRONS DAINTY IS.     AND THY QUARRONS DAINTY IS.
    COUCH A HOGSHEAD WITH ME THEN.     COUCH A HOGSHEAD WITH ME THEN.
    IN THE DARKMANS CLIP AND KISS.     IN THE DARKMANS CLIP AND KISS.
Morose delectation Aquinas tunbelly calls this, FRATE PORCOSPINO. Morose delectation Aquinas tunbelly calls this, FRATE PORCOSPINO.
Unfallen Adam rode and not rutted. Call away let him: THY QUARRONS DAINTY Unfallen Adam rode and not rutted. Call away let him: THY QUARRONS DAINTY
IS. Language no whit worse than his. Monkwords, marybeads jabber on IS. Language no whit worse than his. Monkwords, marybeads jabber on
their girdles: roguewords, tough nuggets patter in their pockets. their girdles: roguewords, tough nuggets patter in their pockets.
Passing now. Passing now.
A side eye at my Hamlet hat. If I were suddenly naked here as I sit? I A side eye at my Hamlet hat. If I were suddenly naked here as I sit? I
am not. Across the sands of all the world, followed by the sun's flaming am not. Across the sands of all the world, followed by the sun's flaming
sword, to the west, trekking to evening lands. She trudges, schlepps, sword, to the west, trekking to evening lands. She trudges, schlepps,
trains, drags, trascines her load. A tide westering, moondrawn, in her trains, drags, trascines her load. A tide westering, moondrawn, in her
wake. Tides, myriadislanded, within her, blood not mine, OINOPA PONTON, wake. Tides, myriadislanded, within her, blood not mine, OINOPA PONTON,
a winedark sea. Behold the handmaid of the moon. In sleep the wet sign a winedark sea. Behold the handmaid of the moon. In sleep the wet sign
calls her hour, bids her rise. Bridebed, childbed, bed of death, calls her hour, bids her rise. Bridebed, childbed, bed of death,
holding the thing out from him, and he and the massboy answered each other holding the thing out from him, and he and the massboy answered each other
in Latin. Then the priest knelt down and began to read off a card: in Latin. Then the priest knelt down and began to read off a card:
--O God, our refuge and our strength ... --O God, our refuge and our strength ...
Mr Bloom put his face forward to catch the words. English. Throw Mr Bloom put his face forward to catch the words. English. Throw
them the bone. I remember slightly. How long since your last mass? them the bone. I remember slightly. How long since your last mass?
Glorious and immaculate virgin. Joseph, her spouse. Peter and Paul. More Glorious and immaculate virgin. Joseph, her spouse. Peter and Paul. More
interesting if you understood what it was all about. Wonderful interesting if you understood what it was all about. Wonderful
organisation certainly, goes like clockwork. Confession. Everyone wants organisation certainly, goes like clockwork. Confession. Everyone wants
to. Then I will tell you all. Penance. Punish me, please. Great weapon in to. Then I will tell you all. Penance. Punish me, please. Great weapon in
their hands. More than doctor or solicitor. Woman dying to. And I their hands. More than doctor or solicitor. Woman dying to. And I
schschschschschsch. And did you chachachachacha? And why did you? Look schschschschschsch. And did you chachachachacha? And why did you? Look
down at her ring to find an excuse. Whispering gallery walls have ears. down at her ring to find an excuse. Whispering gallery walls have ears.
Husband learn to his surprise. God's little joke. Then out she comes. Husband learn to his surprise. God's little joke. Then out she comes.
Repentance skindeep. Lovely shame. Pray at an altar. Hail Mary and Repentance skindeep. Lovely shame. Pray at an altar. Hail Mary and
Holy Mary. Flowers, incense, candles melting. Hide her blushes. Holy Mary. Flowers, incense, candles melting. Hide her blushes.
Salvation army blatant imitation. Reformed prostitute will address Salvation army blatant imitation. Reformed prostitute will address
the meeting. How I found the Lord. Squareheaded chaps those must be the meeting. How I found the Lord. Squareheaded chaps those must be
in Rome: they work the whole show. And don't they rake in the money too? in Rome: they work the whole show. And don't they rake in the money too?
Bequests also: to the P.P. for the time being in his absolute discretion. Bequests also: to the P.P. for the time being in his absolute discretion.
Masses for the repose of my soul to be said publicly with open doors. Masses for the repose of my soul to be said publicly with open doors.
Monasteries and convents. The priest in that Fermanagh will case in Monasteries and convents. The priest in that Fermanagh will case in
the witnessbox. No browbeating him. He had his answer pat for everything. the witnessbox. No browbeating him. He had his answer pat for everything.
Liberty and exaltation of our holy mother the church. The doctors of the Liberty and exaltation of our holy mother the church. The doctors of the
church: they mapped out the whole theology of it. church: they mapped out the whole theology of it.
The priest prayed: The priest prayed:
--Blessed Michael, archangel, defend us in the hour of conflict. Be our --Blessed Michael, archangel, defend us in the hour of conflict. Be our
safeguard against the wickedness and snares of the devil (may God restrain safeguard against the wickedness and snares of the devil (may God restrain
him, we humbly pray!): and do thou, O prince of the heavenly host, by the him, we humbly pray!): and do thou, O prince of the heavenly host, by the
power of God thrust Satan down to hell and with him those other wicked power of God thrust Satan down to hell and with him those other wicked
spirits who wander through the world for the ruin of souls. spirits who wander through the world for the ruin of souls.
The priest and the massboy stood up and walked off. All over. The The priest and the massboy stood up and walked off. All over. The
women remained behind: thanksgiving. women remained behind: thanksgiving.
Better be shoving along. Brother Buzz. Come around with the plate Better be shoving along. Brother Buzz. Come around with the plate
perhaps. Pay your Easter duty. perhaps. Pay your Easter duty.
He stood up. Hello. Were those two buttons of my waistcoat open all He stood up. Hello. Were those two buttons of my waistcoat open all
the time? Women enjoy it. Never tell you. But we. Excuse, miss, there's a the time? Women enjoy it. Never tell you. But we. Excuse, miss, there's a
(whh!) just a (whh!) fluff. Or their skirt behind, placket unhooked. (whh!) just a (whh!) fluff. Or their skirt behind, placket unhooked.
Glimpses of the moon. Annoyed if you don't. Why didn't you tell me Glimpses of the moon. Annoyed if you don't. Why didn't you tell me
before. Still like you better untidy. Good job it wasn't farther south. He before. Still like you better untidy. Good job it wasn't farther south. He
passed, discreetly buttoning, down the aisle and out through the main door passed, discreetly buttoning, down the aisle and out through the main door
into the light. He stood a moment unseeing by the cold black marble bowl into the light. He stood a moment unseeing by the cold black marble bowl
while before him and behind two worshippers dipped furtive hands in the while before him and behind two worshippers dipped furtive hands in the
low tide of holy water. Trams: a car of Prescott's dyeworks: a widow in low tide of holy water. Trams: a car of Prescott's dyeworks: a widow in
her  weeds. Notice because I'm in mourning myself. He covered himself. How her  weeds. Notice because I'm in mourning myself. He covered himself. How
goes the time? Quarter past. Time enough yet. Better get that lotion made goes the time? Quarter past. Time enough yet. Better get that lotion made
up. Where is this? Ah yes, the last time. Sweny's in Lincoln place. up. Where is this? Ah yes, the last time. Sweny's in Lincoln place.
Chemists rarely move. Their green and gold beaconjars too heavy to stir. Chemists rarely move. Their green and gold beaconjars too heavy to stir.
Hamilton Long's, founded in the year of the flood. Huguenot churchyard Hamilton Long's, founded in the year of the flood. Huguenot churchyard
near there. Visit some day. near there. Visit some day.
He walked southward along Westland row. But the recipe is in the He walked southward along Westland row. But the recipe is in the
other trousers. O, and I forgot that latchkey too. Bore this funeral other trousers. O, and I forgot that latchkey too. Bore this funeral
affair. O well, poor fellow, it's not his fault. When was it I got it made affair. O well, poor fellow, it's not his fault. When was it I got it made
up last? Wait. I changed a sovereign I remember. First of the month it up last? Wait. I changed a sovereign I remember. First of the month it
must have been or the second. O, he can look it up in the prescriptions must have been or the second. O, he can look it up in the prescriptions
book. book.
The chemist turned back page after page. Sandy shrivelled smell he The chemist turned back page after page. Sandy shrivelled smell he
seems to have. Shrunken skull. And old. Quest for the philosopher's stone. seems to have. Shrunken skull. And old. Quest for the philosopher's stone.
The alchemists. Drugs age you after mental excitement. Lethargy then. The alchemists. Drugs age you after mental excitement. Lethargy then.
Why? Reaction. A lifetime in a night. Gradually changes your character. Why? Reaction. A lifetime in a night. Gradually changes your character.
Living all the day among herbs, ointments, disinfectants. All his Living all the day among herbs, ointments, disinfectants. All his
alabaster lilypots. Mortar and pestle. Aq. Dist. Fol. Laur. Te Virid. alabaster lilypots. Mortar and pestle. Aq. Dist. Fol. Laur. Te Virid.
Smell almost cure you like the dentist's doorbell. Doctor Whack. He ought Smell almost cure you like the dentist's doorbell. Doctor Whack. He ought
to physic himself a bit. Electuary or emulsion. The first fellow that to physic himself a bit. Electuary or emulsion. The first fellow that
picked an herb to cure himself had a bit of pluck. Simples. Want to be picked an herb to cure himself had a bit of pluck. Simples. Want to be
careful. Enough stuff here to chloroform you. Test: turns blue litmus careful. Enough stuff here to chloroform you. Test: turns blue litmus
paper red. Chloroform. Overdose of laudanum. Sleeping draughts. paper red. Chloroform. Overdose of laudanum. Sleeping draughts.
Lovephiltres. Paragoric poppysyrup bad for cough. Clogs the pores or the Lovephiltres. Paragoric poppysyrup bad for cough. Clogs the pores or the
phlegm. Poisons the only cures. Remedy where you least expect it. Clever phlegm. Poisons the only cures. Remedy where you least expect it. Clever
of nature. of nature.
--About a fortnight ago, sir? --About a fortnight ago, sir?
--Yes, Mr Bloom said. --Yes, Mr Bloom said.
He waited by the counter, inhaling slowly the keen reek of drugs, the He waited by the counter, inhaling slowly the keen reek of drugs, the
dusty dry smell of sponges and loofahs. Lot of time taken up telling your dusty dry smell of sponges and loofahs. Lot of time taken up telling your
aches and pains. aches and pains.
--Sweet almond oil and tincture of benzoin, Mr Bloom said, and then --Sweet almond oil and tincture of benzoin, Mr Bloom said, and then
orangeflower water ... orangeflower water ...
It certainly did make her skin so delicate white like wax. It certainly did make her skin so delicate white like wax.
--And white wax also, he said. --And white wax also, he said.
Brings out the darkness of her eyes. Looking at me, the sheet up to Brings out the darkness of her eyes. Looking at me, the sheet up to
her eyes, Spanish, smelling herself, when I was fixing the links in my her eyes, Spanish, smelling herself, when I was fixing the links in my
cuffs. Those homely recipes are often the best: strawberries for the cuffs. Those homely recipes are often the best: strawberries for the
teeth: nettles and rainwater: oatmeal they say steeped in buttermilk. teeth: nettles and rainwater: oatmeal they say steeped in buttermilk.
Skinfood. One of the old queen's sons, duke of Albany was it? had only one Skinfood. One of the old queen's sons, duke of Albany was it? had only one
skin. Leopold, yes. Three we have. Warts, bunions and pimples to make it skin. Leopold, yes. Three we have. Warts, bunions and pimples to make it
worse. But you want a perfume too. What perfume does your? PEAU D'ESPAGNE. worse. But you want a perfume too. What perfume does your? PEAU D'ESPAGNE.
That orangeflower water is so fresh. Nice smell these soaps have. Pure That orangeflower water is so fresh. Nice smell these soaps have. Pure
curd soap. Time to get a bath round the corner. Hammam. Turkish. Massage. curd soap. Time to get a bath round the corner. Hammam. Turkish. Massage.
Dirt gets rolled up in your navel. Nicer if a nice girl did it. Also I Dirt gets rolled up in your navel. Nicer if a nice girl did it. Also I
think I. Yes I. Do it in the bath. Curious longing I. Water to water. think I. Yes I. Do it in the bath. Curious longing I. Water to water.
Combine business with pleasure. Pity no time for massage. Feel fresh then Combine business with pleasure. Pity no time for massage. Feel fresh then
all the day. Funeral be rather glum. all the day. Funeral be rather glum.
--Yes, sir, the chemist said. That was two and nine. Have you brought a --Yes, sir, the chemist said. That was two and nine. Have you brought a
bottle? bottle?
--No, Mr Bloom said. Make it up, please. I'll call later in the day and --No, Mr Bloom said. Make it up, please. I'll call later in the day and
I'll take one of these soaps. How much are they? I'll take one of these soaps. How much are they?
--Fourpence, sir. --Fourpence, sir.
Mr Bloom raised a cake to his nostrils. Sweet lemony wax. Mr Bloom raised a cake to his nostrils. Sweet lemony wax.
--I'll take this one, he said. That makes three and a penny. --I'll take this one, he said. That makes three and a penny.
--Yes, sir, the chemist said. You can pay all together, sir, when you --Yes, sir, the chemist said. You can pay all together, sir, when you
come back. come back.
--Good, Mr Bloom said. --Good, Mr Bloom said.
He strolled out of the shop, the newspaper baton under his armpit, He strolled out of the shop, the newspaper baton under his armpit,
the coolwrappered soap in his left hand. the coolwrappered soap in his left hand.
At his armpit Bantam Lyons' voice and hand said: At his armpit Bantam Lyons' voice and hand said:
--Hello, Bloom. What's the best news? Is that today's? Show us a minute. --Hello, Bloom. What's the best news? Is that today's? Show us a minute.
Shaved off his moustache again, by Jove! Long cold upper lip. To Shaved off his moustache again, by Jove! Long cold upper lip. To
look younger. He does look balmy. Younger than I am. look younger. He does look balmy. Younger than I am.
Bantam Lyons's yellow blacknailed fingers unrolled the baton. Wants Bantam Lyons's yellow blacknailed fingers unrolled the baton. Wants
a wash too. Take off the rough dirt. Good morning, have you used Pears' a wash too. Take off the rough dirt. Good morning, have you used Pears'
soap? Dandruff on his shoulders. Scalp wants oiling. soap? Dandruff on his shoulders. Scalp wants oiling.
--I want to see about that French horse that's running today, Bantam --I want to see about that French horse that's running today, Bantam
Lyons said. Where the bugger is it? Lyons said. Where the bugger is it?
He rustled the pleated pages, jerking his chin on his high collar. He rustled the pleated pages, jerking his chin on his high collar.
Barber's itch. Tight collar he'll lose his hair. Better leave him the Barber's itch. Tight collar he'll lose his hair. Better leave him the
paper and get shut of him. paper and get shut of him.
--You can keep it, Mr Bloom said. --You can keep it, Mr Bloom said.
--Ascot. Gold cup. Wait, Bantam Lyons muttered. Half a mo. Maximum --Ascot. Gold cup. Wait, Bantam Lyons muttered. Half a mo. Maximum
the second. the second.
--I was just going to throw it away, Mr Bloom said. --I was just going to throw it away, Mr Bloom said.
Bantam Lyons raised his eyes suddenly and leered weakly. Bantam Lyons raised his eyes suddenly and leered weakly.
--What's that? his sharp voice said. --What's that? his sharp voice said.
--I say you can keep it, Mr Bloom answered. I was going to throw it away --I say you can keep it, Mr Bloom answered. I was going to throw it away
that moment. that moment.
Bantam Lyons doubted an instant, leering: then thrust the outspread Bantam Lyons doubted an instant, leering: then thrust the outspread
sheets back on Mr Bloom's arms. sheets back on Mr Bloom's arms.
--I'll risk it, he said. Here, thanks. --I'll risk it, he said. Here, thanks.
He sped off towards Conway's corner. God speed scut. He sped off towards Conway's corner. God speed scut.
Mr Bloom folded the sheets again to a neat square and lodged the Mr Bloom folded the sheets again to a neat square and lodged the
soap in it, smiling. Silly lips of that chap. Betting. Regular hotbed of soap in it, smiling. Silly lips of that chap. Betting. Regular hotbed of
it lately. Messenger boys stealing to put on sixpence. Raffle for large it lately. Messenger boys stealing to put on sixpence. Raffle for large
tender turkey. Your Christmas dinner for threepence. Jack Fleming tender turkey. Your Christmas dinner for threepence. Jack Fleming
embezzling to gamble then smuggled off to America. Keeps a hotel now. They embezzling to gamble then smuggled off to America. Keeps a hotel now. They
never come back. Fleshpots of Egypt. never come back. Fleshpots of Egypt.
He walked cheerfully towards the mosque of the baths. Remind you He walked cheerfully towards the mosque of the baths. Remind you
of a mosque, redbaked bricks, the minarets. College sports today I see. He of a mosque, redbaked bricks, the minarets. College sports today I see. He
eyed the horseshoe poster over the gate of college park: cyclist doubled eyed the horseshoe poster over the gate of college park: cyclist doubled
up like a cod in a pot. Damn bad ad. Now if they had made it round like a up like a cod in a pot. Damn bad ad. Now if they had made it round like a
wheel. Then the spokes: sports, sports, sports: and the hub big: college. wheel. Then the spokes: sports, sports, sports: and the hub big: college.
Something to catch the eye. Something to catch the eye.
There's Hornblower standing at the porter's lodge. Keep him on There's Hornblower standing at the porter's lodge. Keep him on
hands: might take a turn in there on the nod. How do you do, Mr hands: might take a turn in there on the nod. How do you do, Mr
Hornblower? How do you do, sir? Hornblower? How do you do, sir?
Heavenly weather really. If life was always like that. Cricket weather. Heavenly weather really. If life was always like that. Cricket weather.
Sit around under sunshades. Over after over. Out. They can't play it here. Sit around under sunshades. Over after over. Out. They can't play it here.
Duck for six wickets. Still Captain Culler broke a window in the Kildare Duck for six wickets. Still Captain Culler broke a window in the Kildare
street club with a slog to square leg. Donnybrook fair more in their line. street club with a slog to square leg. Donnybrook fair more in their line.
And the skulls we were acracking when M'Carthy took the floor. And the skulls we were acracking when M'Carthy took the floor.
Heatwave. Won't last. Always passing, the stream of life, which in the Heatwave. Won't last. Always passing, the stream of life, which in the
stream of life we trace is dearer than them all. stream of life we trace is dearer than them all.
Enjoy a bath now: clean trough of water, cool enamel, the gentle Enjoy a bath now: clean trough of water, cool enamel, the gentle
tepid stream. This is my body. tepid stream. This is my body.
He foresaw his pale body reclined in it at full, naked, in a womb of He foresaw his pale body reclined in it at full, naked, in a womb of
warmth, oiled by scented melting soap, softly laved. He saw his trunk and warmth, oiled by scented melting soap, softly laved. He saw his trunk and
limbs riprippled over and sustained, buoyed lightly upward, lemonyellow: limbs riprippled over and sustained, buoyed lightly upward, lemonyellow:
his navel, bud of flesh: and saw the dark tangled curls of his bush his navel, bud of flesh: and saw the dark tangled curls of his bush
floating, floating hair of the stream around the limp father of thousands, floating, floating hair of the stream around the limp father of thousands,
a languid floating flower. a languid floating flower.
    * * * * * * *     * * * * * * *
Martin Cunningham, first, poked his silkhatted head into the creaking Martin Cunningham, first, poked his silkhatted head into the creaking
carriage and, entering deftly, seated himself. Mr Power stepped in after carriage and, entering deftly, seated himself. Mr Power stepped in after
him, curving his height with care. him, curving his height with care.
--Come on, Simon. --Come on, Simon.
--After you, Mr Bloom said. --After you, Mr Bloom said.
Mr Dedalus covered himself quickly and got in, saying: Mr Dedalus covered himself quickly and got in, saying:
Yes, yes. Yes, yes.
--Are we all here now? Martin Cunningham asked. Come along, Bloom. --Are we all here now? Martin Cunningham asked. Come along, Bloom.
Mr Bloom entered and sat in the vacant place. He pulled the door to Mr Bloom entered and sat in the vacant place. He pulled the door to
after him and slammed it twice till it shut tight. He passed an arm after him and slammed it twice till it shut tight. He passed an arm
through the armstrap and looked seriously from the open carriagewindow at through the armstrap and looked seriously from the open carriagewindow at
the lowered blinds of the avenue. One dragged aside: an old woman peeping. the lowered blinds of the avenue. One dragged aside: an old woman peeping.
Nose whiteflattened against the pane. Thanking her stars she was passed Nose whiteflattened against the pane. Thanking her stars she was passed
over. Extraordinary the interest they take in a corpse. Glad to see us go over. Extraordinary the interest they take in a corpse. Glad to see us go
we give them such trouble coming. Job seems to suit them. Huggermugger in we give them such trouble coming. Job seems to suit them. Huggermugger in
corners. Slop about in slipperslappers for fear he'd wake. Then getting it corners. Slop about in slipperslappers for fear he'd wake. Then getting it
ready. Laying it out. Molly and Mrs Fleming making the bed. Pull it more ready. Laying it out. Molly and Mrs Fleming making the bed. Pull it more
to your side. Our windingsheet. Never know who will touch you dead. to your side. Our windingsheet. Never know who will touch you dead.
Wash and shampoo. I believe they clip the nails and the hair. Keep a bit Wash and shampoo. I believe they clip the nails and the hair. Keep a bit
in an envelope. Grows all the same after. Unclean job. in an envelope. Grows all the same after. Unclean job.
All waited. Nothing was said. Stowing in the wreaths probably. I am All waited. Nothing was said. Stowing in the wreaths probably. I am
sitting on something hard. Ah, that soap: in my hip pocket. Better shift sitting on something hard. Ah, that soap: in my hip pocket. Better shift
it out of that. Wait for an opportunity. it out of that. Wait for an opportunity.
All waited. Then wheels were heard from in front, turning: then All waited. Then wheels were heard from in front, turning: then
nearer: then horses' hoofs. A jolt. Their carriage began to move, creaking nearer: then horses' hoofs. A jolt. Their carriage began to move, creaking
and swaying. Other hoofs and creaking wheels started behind. The blinds and swaying. Other hoofs and creaking wheels started behind. The blinds
of the avenue passed and number nine with its craped knocker, door ajar. of the avenue passed and number nine with its craped knocker, door ajar.
At walking pace. At walking pace.
They waited still, their knees jogging, till they had turned and were They waited still, their knees jogging, till they had turned and were
passing along the tramtracks. Tritonville road. Quicker. The wheels passing along the tramtracks. Tritonville road. Quicker. The wheels
rattled rolling over the cobbled causeway and the crazy glasses shook rattled rolling over the cobbled causeway and the crazy glasses shook
rattling in the doorframes. rattling in the doorframes.
--What way is he taking us? Mr Power asked through both windows. --What way is he taking us? Mr Power asked through both windows.
--Irishtown, Martin Cunningham said. Ringsend. Brunswick street. --Irishtown, Martin Cunningham said. Ringsend. Brunswick street.
--I COULD NOT LEAVE THEE ... --I COULD NOT LEAVE THEE ...
--Afterwits, miss Douce promised coyly. --Afterwits, miss Douce promised coyly.
--No, now, urged Lenehan. SONNEZLACLOCHE! O do! There's no-one. --No, now, urged Lenehan. SONNEZLACLOCHE! O do! There's no-one.
She looked. Quick. Miss Kenn out of earshot. Sudden bent. Two She looked. Quick. Miss Kenn out of earshot. Sudden bent. Two
kindling faces watched her bend. kindling faces watched her bend.
Quavering the chords strayed from the air, found it again, lost chord, Quavering the chords strayed from the air, found it again, lost chord,
and lost and found it, faltering. and lost and found it, faltering.
--Go on! Do! SONNEZ! --Go on! Do! SONNEZ!
Bending, she nipped a peak of skirt above her knee. Delayed. Taunted Bending, she nipped a peak of skirt above her knee. Delayed. Taunted
them still, bending, suspending, with wilful eyes. them still, bending, suspending, with wilful eyes.
--SONNEZ! --SONNEZ!
Smack. She set free sudden in rebound her nipped elastic garter Smack. She set free sudden in rebound her nipped elastic garter
smackwarm against her smackable a woman's warmhosed thigh. smackwarm against her smackable a woman's warmhosed thigh.
--LA CLOCHE! cried gleeful Lenehan. Trained by owner. No sawdust there. --LA CLOCHE! cried gleeful Lenehan. Trained by owner. No sawdust there.
She smilesmirked supercilious (wept! aren't men?), but, lightward She smilesmirked supercilious (wept! aren't men?), but, lightward
gliding, mild she smiled on Boylan. gliding, mild she smiled on Boylan.
--You're the essence of vulgarity, she in gliding said. --You're the essence of vulgarity, she in gliding said.
Boylan, eyed, eyed. Tossed to fat lips his chalice, drank off his chalice Boylan, eyed, eyed. Tossed to fat lips his chalice, drank off his chalice
tiny, sucking the last fat violet syrupy drops. His spellbound eyes went tiny, sucking the last fat violet syrupy drops. His spellbound eyes went
after, after her gliding head as it went down the bar by mirrors, gilded after, after her gliding head as it went down the bar by mirrors, gilded
arch for ginger ale, hock and claret glasses shimmering, a spiky shell, arch for ginger ale, hock and claret glasses shimmering, a spiky shell,
where it concerted, mirrored, bronze with sunnier bronze. where it concerted, mirrored, bronze with sunnier bronze.
Yes, bronze from anearby. Yes, bronze from anearby.
-- ... SWEETHEART, GOODBYE! -- ... SWEETHEART, GOODBYE!
--I'm off, said Boylan with impatience. --I'm off, said Boylan with impatience.
asylum for demented gentlemen. Born out of bedlock hereditary epilepsy is asylum for demented gentlemen. Born out of bedlock hereditary epilepsy is
present, the consequence of unbridled lust. Traces of elephantiasis have present, the consequence of unbridled lust. Traces of elephantiasis have
been discovered among his ascendants. There are marked symptoms of been discovered among his ascendants. There are marked symptoms of
chronic exhibitionism. Ambidexterity is also latent. He is prematurely chronic exhibitionism. Ambidexterity is also latent. He is prematurely
bald from selfabuse, perversely idealistic in consequence, a reformed bald from selfabuse, perversely idealistic in consequence, a reformed
rake, and has metal teeth. In consequence of a family complex he has rake, and has metal teeth. In consequence of a family complex he has
temporarily lost his memory and I believe him to be more sinned against temporarily lost his memory and I believe him to be more sinned against
than sinning. I have made a pervaginal examination and, after application than sinning. I have made a pervaginal examination and, after application
of the acid test to 5427 anal, axillary, pectoral and pubic hairs, I of the acid test to 5427 anal, axillary, pectoral and pubic hairs, I
declare him to be VIRGO INTACTA. declare him to be VIRGO INTACTA.
(BLOOM HOLDS HIS HIGH GRADE HAT OVER HIS GENITAL ORGANS.) (BLOOM HOLDS HIS HIGH GRADE HAT OVER HIS GENITAL ORGANS.)
DR MADDEN: Hypsospadia is also marked. In the interest of coming DR MADDEN: Hypsospadia is also marked. In the interest of coming
generations I suggest that the parts affected should be preserved in generations I suggest that the parts affected should be preserved in
spirits of wine in the national teratological museum. spirits of wine in the national teratological museum.
DR CROTTHERS: I have examined the patient's urine. It is albuminoid. DR CROTTHERS: I have examined the patient's urine. It is albuminoid.
Salivation is insufficient, the patellar reflex intermittent. Salivation is insufficient, the patellar reflex intermittent.
DR PUNCH COSTELLO: The FETOR JUDAICUS is most perceptible. DR PUNCH COSTELLO: The FETOR JUDAICUS is most perceptible.
DR DIXON: (READS A BILL OF HEALTH) Professor Bloom is a finished example DR DIXON: (READS A BILL OF HEALTH) Professor Bloom is a finished example
of the new womanly man. His moral nature is simple and lovable. Many have of the new womanly man. His moral nature is simple and lovable. Many have
found him a dear man, a dear person. He is a rather quaint fellow on the found him a dear man, a dear person. He is a rather quaint fellow on the
whole, coy though not feebleminded in the medical sense. He has written a whole, coy though not feebleminded in the medical sense. He has written a
really beautiful letter, a poem in itself, to the court missionary of the really beautiful letter, a poem in itself, to the court missionary of the
Reformed Priests' Protection Society which clears up everything. He is Reformed Priests' Protection Society which clears up everything. He is
practically a total abstainer and I can affirm that he sleeps on a straw practically a total abstainer and I can affirm that he sleeps on a straw
litter and eats the most Spartan food, cold dried grocer's peas. He wears litter and eats the most Spartan food, cold dried grocer's peas. He wears
a hairshirt of pure Irish manufacture winter and summer and scourges a hairshirt of pure Irish manufacture winter and summer and scourges
himself every Saturday. He was, I understand, at one time a firstclass himself every Saturday. He was, I understand, at one time a firstclass
misdemeanant in Glencree reformatory. Another report states that he was a misdemeanant in Glencree reformatory. Another report states that he was a
very posthumous child. I appeal for clemency in the name of the most very posthumous child. I appeal for clemency in the name of the most
sacred word our vocal organs have ever been called upon to speak. He is sacred word our vocal organs have ever been called upon to speak. He is
about to have a baby. about to have a baby.
(GENERAL COMMOTION AND COMPASSION. WOMEN FAINT. A WEALTHY AMERICAN MAKES (GENERAL COMMOTION AND COMPASSION. WOMEN FAINT. A WEALTHY AMERICAN MAKES
A STREET COLLECTION FOR BLOOM. GOLD AND SILVER COINS, BLANK CHEQUES, A STREET COLLECTION FOR BLOOM. GOLD AND SILVER COINS, BLANK CHEQUES,
BANKNOTES, JEWELS, TREASURY BONDS, MATURING BILLS OF EXCHANGE, I. O. U'S, BANKNOTES, JEWELS, TREASURY BONDS, MATURING BILLS OF EXCHANGE, I. O. U'S,
WEDDING RINGS, WATCHCHAINS, LOCKETS, NECKLACES AND BRACELETS ARE RAPIDLY WEDDING RINGS, WATCHCHAINS, LOCKETS, NECKLACES AND BRACELETS ARE RAPIDLY
COLLECTED.) COLLECTED.)
BLOOM: O, I so want to be a mother. BLOOM: O, I so want to be a mother.
MRS THORNTON: (IN NURSETENDER'S GOWN) Embrace me tight, dear. You'll be MRS THORNTON: (IN NURSETENDER'S GOWN) Embrace me tight, dear. You'll be
soon over it. Tight, dear. soon over it. Tight, dear.
(BLOOM EMBRACES HER TIGHTLY AND BEARS EIGHT MALE YELLOW AND WHITE (BLOOM EMBRACES HER TIGHTLY AND BEARS EIGHT MALE YELLOW AND WHITE
CHILDREN. THEY APPEAR ON A REDCARPETED STAIRCASE ADORNED WITH EXPENSIVE CHILDREN. THEY APPEAR ON A REDCARPETED STAIRCASE ADORNED WITH EXPENSIVE
PLANTS. ALL THE OCTUPLETS ARE HANDSOME, WITH VALUABLE METALLIC FACES, PLANTS. ALL THE OCTUPLETS ARE HANDSOME, WITH VALUABLE METALLIC FACES,
WELLMADE, RESPECTABLY DRESSED AND WELLCONDUCTED, SPEAKING FIVE MODERN WELLMADE, RESPECTABLY DRESSED AND WELLCONDUCTED, SPEAKING FIVE MODERN
LANGUAGES FLUENTLY AND INTERESTED IN VARIOUS ARTS AND SCIENCES. EACH HAS LANGUAGES FLUENTLY AND INTERESTED IN VARIOUS ARTS AND SCIENCES. EACH HAS
HIS NAME PRINTED IN LEGIBLE LETTERS ON HIS SHIRTFRONT: NASODORO, HIS NAME PRINTED IN LEGIBLE LETTERS ON HIS SHIRTFRONT: NASODORO,
GOLDFINGER, CHRYSOSTOMOS, MAINDOREE, SILVERSMILE, SILBERSELBER, GOLDFINGER, CHRYSOSTOMOS, MAINDOREE, SILVERSMILE, SILBERSELBER,
VIFARGENT, PANARGYROS. THEY ARE IMMEDIATELY APPOINTED TO POSITIONS OF VIFARGENT, PANARGYROS. THEY ARE IMMEDIATELY APPOINTED TO POSITIONS OF
HIGH PUBLIC TRUST IN SEVERAL DIFFERENT COUNTRIES AS MANAGING DIRECTORS OF HIGH PUBLIC TRUST IN SEVERAL DIFFERENT COUNTRIES AS MANAGING DIRECTORS OF
BANKS, TRAFFIC MANAGERS OF RAILWAYS, CHAIRMEN OF LIMITED LIABILITY BANKS, TRAFFIC MANAGERS OF RAILWAYS, CHAIRMEN OF LIMITED LIABILITY
COMPANIES, VICECHAIRMEN OF HOTEL SYNDICATES.) COMPANIES, VICECHAIRMEN OF HOTEL SYNDICATES.)
A VOICE: Bloom, are you the Messiah ben Joseph or ben David? A VOICE: Bloom, are you the Messiah ben Joseph or ben David?
BLOOM: (DARKLY) You have said it. BLOOM: (DARKLY) You have said it.
BROTHER BUZZ: Then perform a miracle like Father Charles. BROTHER BUZZ: Then perform a miracle like Father Charles.
BANTAM LYONS: Prophesy who will win the Saint Leger. BANTAM LYONS: Prophesy who will win the Saint Leger.
(BLOOM WALKS ON A NET, COVERS HIS LEFT EYE WITH HIS LEFT EAR, PASSES (BLOOM WALKS ON A NET, COVERS HIS LEFT EYE WITH HIS LEFT EAR, PASSES
THROUGH SEVERAL WALLS, CLIMBS NELSON'S PILLAR, HANGS FROM THE TOP LEDGE THROUGH SEVERAL WALLS, CLIMBS NELSON'S PILLAR, HANGS FROM THE TOP LEDGE
BY HIS EYELIDS, EATS TWELVE DOZEN OYSTERS (SHELLS INCLUDED), HEALS BY HIS EYELIDS, EATS TWELVE DOZEN OYSTERS (SHELLS INCLUDED), HEALS
SEVERAL SUFFERERS FROM KING'S EVIL, CONTRACTS HIS FACE SO AS TO RESEMBLE SEVERAL SUFFERERS FROM KING'S EVIL, CONTRACTS HIS FACE SO AS TO RESEMBLE
MANY HISTORICAL PERSONAGES, LORD BEACONSFIELD, LORD BYRON, WAT TYLER, MANY HISTORICAL PERSONAGES, LORD BEACONSFIELD, LORD BYRON, WAT TYLER,
MOSES OF EGYPT, MOSES MAIMONIDES, MOSES MENDELSSOHN, HENRY IRVING, RIP MOSES OF EGYPT, MOSES MAIMONIDES, MOSES MENDELSSOHN, HENRY IRVING, RIP
VAN WINKLE, KOSSUTH, JEAN JACQUES ROUSSEAU, BARON LEOPOLD ROTHSCHILD, VAN WINKLE, KOSSUTH, JEAN JACQUES ROUSSEAU, BARON LEOPOLD ROTHSCHILD,
ROBINSON CRUSOE, SHERLOCK HOLMES, PASTEUR, TURNS EACH FOOT SIMULTANEOUSLY ROBINSON CRUSOE, SHERLOCK HOLMES, PASTEUR, TURNS EACH FOOT SIMULTANEOUSLY
IN DIFFERENT DIRECTIONS, BIDS THE TIDE TURN BACK, ECLIPSES THE SUN BY IN DIFFERENT DIRECTIONS, BIDS THE TIDE TURN BACK, ECLIPSES THE SUN BY
EXTENDING HIS LITTLE FINGER.) EXTENDING HIS LITTLE FINGER.)
BRINI, PAPAL NUNCIO: (IN PAPAL ZOUAVE'S UNIFORM, STEEL CUIRASSES AS BRINI, PAPAL NUNCIO: (IN PAPAL ZOUAVE'S UNIFORM, STEEL CUIRASSES AS
BREASTPLATE, ARMPLATES, THIGHPLATES, LEGPLATES, LARGE PROFANE MOUSTACHES BREASTPLATE, ARMPLATES, THIGHPLATES, LEGPLATES, LARGE PROFANE MOUSTACHES
AND BROWN PAPER MITRE) LEOPOLDI AUTEM GENERATIO. Moses begat Noah and AND BROWN PAPER MITRE) LEOPOLDI AUTEM GENERATIO. Moses begat Noah and
Noah begat Eunuch and Eunuch begat O'Halloran and O'Halloran begat Noah begat Eunuch and Eunuch begat O'Halloran and O'Halloran begat
Guggenheim and Guggenheim begat Agendath and Agendath begat Netaim and Guggenheim and Guggenheim begat Agendath and Agendath begat Netaim and
Netaim begat Le Hirsch and Le Hirsch begat Jesurum and Jesurum begat Netaim begat Le Hirsch and Le Hirsch begat Jesurum and Jesurum begat
MacKay and MacKay begat Ostrolopsky and Ostrolopsky begat Smerdoz and MacKay and MacKay begat Ostrolopsky and Ostrolopsky begat Smerdoz and
Smerdoz begat Weiss and Weiss begat Schwarz and Schwarz begat Adrianopoli Smerdoz begat Weiss and Weiss begat Schwarz and Schwarz begat Adrianopoli
and Adrianopoli begat Aranjuez and Aranjuez begat Lewy Lawson and Lewy and Adrianopoli begat Aranjuez and Aranjuez begat Lewy Lawson and Lewy
Lawson begat Ichabudonosor and Ichabudonosor begat O'Donnell Magnus and Lawson begat Ichabudonosor and Ichabudonosor begat O'Donnell Magnus and
O'Donnell Magnus begat Christbaum and Christbaum begat ben Maimun and ben O'Donnell Magnus begat Christbaum and Christbaum begat ben Maimun and ben
Maimun begat Dusty Rhodes and Dusty Rhodes begat Benamor and Benamor Maimun begat Dusty Rhodes and Dusty Rhodes begat Benamor and Benamor
begat Jones-Smith and Jones-Smith begat Savorgnanovich and Savorgnanovich begat Jones-Smith and Jones-Smith begat Savorgnanovich and Savorgnanovich
begat Jasperstone and Jasperstone begat Vingtetunieme and Vingtetunieme begat Jasperstone and Jasperstone begat Vingtetunieme and Vingtetunieme
begat Szombathely and Szombathely begat Virag and Virag begat Bloom ET begat Szombathely and Szombathely begat Virag and Virag begat Bloom ET
VOCABITUR NOMEN EIUS EMMANUEL. VOCABITUR NOMEN EIUS EMMANUEL.
A DEADHAND: (WRITES ON THE WALL) Bloom is a cod. A DEADHAND: (WRITES ON THE WALL) Bloom is a cod.
CRAB: (IN BUSHRANGER'S KIT) What did you do in the cattlecreep behind CRAB: (IN BUSHRANGER'S KIT) What did you do in the cattlecreep behind
Kilbarrack? Kilbarrack?
A FEMALE INFANT: (SHAKES A RATTLE) And under Ballybough bridge? A FEMALE INFANT: (SHAKES A RATTLE) And under Ballybough bridge?
A HOLLYBUSH: And in the devil's glen? A HOLLYBUSH: And in the devil's glen?
BLOOM: (BLUSHES FURIOUSLY ALL OVER FROM FRONS TO NATES, THREE TEARS BLOOM: (BLUSHES FURIOUSLY ALL OVER FROM FRONS TO NATES, THREE TEARS
FILLING FROM HIS LEFT EYE) Spare my past. FILLING FROM HIS LEFT EYE) Spare my past.
THE IRISH EVICTED TENANTS: (IN BODYCOATS, KNEEBREECHES, WITH DONNYBROOK THE IRISH EVICTED TENANTS: (IN BODYCOATS, KNEEBREECHES, WITH DONNYBROOK
FAIR SHILLELAGHS) Sjambok him! FAIR SHILLELAGHS) Sjambok him!
(BLOOM WITH ASSES' EARS SEATS HIMSELF IN THE PILLORY WITH CROSSED ARMS, (BLOOM WITH ASSES' EARS SEATS HIMSELF IN THE PILLORY WITH CROSSED ARMS,
HIS FEET PROTRUDING. HE WHISTLES Don Giovanni, a cenar teco. ARTANE HIS FEET PROTRUDING. HE WHISTLES Don Giovanni, a cenar teco. ARTANE
ORPHANS, JOINING HANDS, CAPER ROUND HIM. GIRLS OF THE PRISON GATE ORPHANS, JOINING HANDS, CAPER ROUND HIM. GIRLS OF THE PRISON GATE
MISSION, JOINING HANDS, CAPER ROUND IN THE OPPOSITE DIRECTION.) MISSION, JOINING HANDS, CAPER ROUND IN THE OPPOSITE DIRECTION.)
THE ARTANE ORPHANS: THE ARTANE ORPHANS:
    You hig, you hog, you dirty dog!     You hig, you hog, you dirty dog!
    You think the ladies love you!     You think the ladies love you!
THE PRISON GATE GIRLS: THE PRISON GATE GIRLS:
    If you see Kay     If you see Kay
    Tell him he may     Tell him he may
    See you in tea     See you in tea
    Tell him from me.     Tell him from me.
HORNBLOWER: (IN EPHOD AND HUNTINGCAP, ANNOUNCES) And he shall carry the HORNBLOWER: (IN EPHOD AND HUNTINGCAP, ANNOUNCES) And he shall carry the
sins of the people to Azazel, the spirit which is in the wilderness, and sins of the people to Azazel, the spirit which is in the wilderness, and
to Lilith, the nighthag. And they shall stone him and defile him, yea, to Lilith, the nighthag. And they shall stone him and defile him, yea,
all from Agendath Netaim and from Mizraim, the land of Ham. all from Agendath Netaim and from Mizraim, the land of Ham.
(ALL THE PEOPLE CAST SOFT PANTOMIME STONES AT BLOOM. MANY BONAFIDE (ALL THE PEOPLE CAST SOFT PANTOMIME STONES AT BLOOM. MANY BONAFIDE
TRAVELLERS AND OWNERLESS DOGS COME NEAR HIM AND DEFILE HIM. MASTIANSKY TRAVELLERS AND OWNERLESS DOGS COME NEAR HIM AND DEFILE HIM. MASTIANSKY
AND CITRON APPROACH IN GABERDINES, WEARING LONG EARLOCKS. THEY WAG THEIR AND CITRON APPROACH IN GABERDINES, WEARING LONG EARLOCKS. THEY WAG THEIR
BEARDS AT BLOOM.) BEARDS AT BLOOM.)
MASTIANSKY AND CITRON: Belial! Laemlein of Istria, the false Messiah! MASTIANSKY AND CITRON: Belial! Laemlein of Istria, the false Messiah!
Abulafia! Recant! Abulafia! Recant!
(GEORGE R MESIAS, BLOOM'S TAILOR, APPEARS, A TAILOR'S GOOSE UNDER HIS (GEORGE R MESIAS, BLOOM'S TAILOR, APPEARS, A TAILOR'S GOOSE UNDER HIS
ARM, PRESENTING A BILL) ARM, PRESENTING A BILL)
MESIAS: To alteration one pair trousers eleven shillings. MESIAS: To alteration one pair trousers eleven shillings.
BLOOM: (RUBS HIS HANDS CHEERFULLY) Just like old times. Poor Bloom! BLOOM: (RUBS HIS HANDS CHEERFULLY) Just like old times. Poor Bloom!
(REUBEN J DODD, BLACKBEARDED ISCARIOT, BAD SHEPHERD, BEARING ON HIS (REUBEN J DODD, BLACKBEARDED ISCARIOT, BAD SHEPHERD, BEARING ON HIS
SHOULDERS THE DROWNED CORPSE OF HIS SON, APPROACHES THE PILLORY.) SHOULDERS THE DROWNED CORPSE OF HIS SON, APPROACHES THE PILLORY.)
REUBEN J: (WHISPERS HOARSELY) The squeak is out. A split is gone for the REUBEN J: (WHISPERS HOARSELY) The squeak is out. A split is gone for the
flatties. Nip the first rattler. flatties. Nip the first rattler.
THE FIRE BRIGADE: Pflaap! THE FIRE BRIGADE: Pflaap!
BROTHER BUZZ: (INVESTS BLOOM IN A YELLOW HABIT WITH EMBROIDERY OF PAINTED BROTHER BUZZ: (INVESTS BLOOM IN A YELLOW HABIT WITH EMBROIDERY OF PAINTED
FLAMES AND HIGH POINTED HAT. HE PLACES A BAG OF GUNPOWDER ROUND HIS NECK FLAMES AND HIGH POINTED HAT. HE PLACES A BAG OF GUNPOWDER ROUND HIS NECK
AND HANDS HIM OVER TO THE CIVIL POWER, SAYING) Forgive him his AND HANDS HIM OVER TO THE CIVIL POWER, SAYING) Forgive him his
trespasses. trespasses.
(LIEUTENANT MYERS OF THE DUBLIN FIRE BRIGADE BY GENERAL REQUEST SETS FIRE (LIEUTENANT MYERS OF THE DUBLIN FIRE BRIGADE BY GENERAL REQUEST SETS FIRE
TO BLOOM. LAMENTATIONS.) TO BLOOM. LAMENTATIONS.)
THE CITIZEN: Thank heaven! THE CITIZEN: Thank heaven!
BLOOM: (IN A SEAMLESS GARMENT MARKED I. H. S. STANDS UPRIGHT AMID PHOENIX BLOOM: (IN A SEAMLESS GARMENT MARKED I. H. S. STANDS UPRIGHT AMID PHOENIX
FLAMES) Weep not for me, O daughters of Erin. FLAMES) Weep not for me, O daughters of Erin.
(HE EXHIBITS TO DUBLIN REPORTERS TRACES OF BURNING. THE DAUGHTERS OF (HE EXHIBITS TO DUBLIN REPORTERS TRACES OF BURNING. THE DAUGHTERS OF
ERIN, IN BLACK GARMENTS, WITH LARGE PRAYERBOOKS AND LONG LIGHTED CANDLES ERIN, IN BLACK GARMENTS, WITH LARGE PRAYERBOOKS AND LONG LIGHTED CANDLES
IN THEIR HANDS, KNEEL DOWN AND PRAY.) IN THEIR HANDS, KNEEL DOWN AND PRAY.)
THE DAUGHTERS OF ERIN: THE DAUGHTERS OF ERIN:
    Kidney of Bloom, pray for us     Kidney of Bloom, pray for us
    Flower of the Bath, pray for us     Flower of the Bath, pray for us
    Mentor of Menton, pray for us     Mentor of Menton, pray for us
    Canvasser for the Freeman, pray for us     Canvasser for the Freeman, pray for us
    Charitable Mason, pray for us     Charitable Mason, pray for us
What retribution, if any? What retribution, if any?
Assassination, never, as two wrongs did not make one right. Duel by Assassination, never, as two wrongs did not make one right. Duel by
combat, no. Divorce, not now. Exposure by mechanical artifice (automatic combat, no. Divorce, not now. Exposure by mechanical artifice (automatic
bed) or individual testimony (concealed ocular witnesses), not yet. Suit bed) or individual testimony (concealed ocular witnesses), not yet. Suit
for damages by legal influence or simulation of assault with evidence of for damages by legal influence or simulation of assault with evidence of
injuries sustained (selfinflicted), not impossibly. Hushmoney by moral injuries sustained (selfinflicted), not impossibly. Hushmoney by moral
influence possibly. If any, positively, connivance, introduction of influence possibly. If any, positively, connivance, introduction of
emulation (material, a prosperous rival agency of publicity: moral, a emulation (material, a prosperous rival agency of publicity: moral, a
successful rival agent of intimacy), depreciation, alienation, successful rival agent of intimacy), depreciation, alienation,
humiliation, separation protecting the one separated from the other, humiliation, separation protecting the one separated from the other,
protecting the separator from both. protecting the separator from both.
By what reflections did he, a conscious reactor against the void of By what reflections did he, a conscious reactor against the void of
incertitude, justify to himself his sentiments? incertitude, justify to himself his sentiments?
The preordained frangibility of the hymen: the presupposed intangibility The preordained frangibility of the hymen: the presupposed intangibility
of the thing in itself: the incongruity and disproportion between the of the thing in itself: the incongruity and disproportion between the
selfprolonging tension of the thing proposed to be done and the selfprolonging tension of the thing proposed to be done and the
selfabbreviating relaxation of the thing done; the fallaciously inferred selfabbreviating relaxation of the thing done; the fallaciously inferred
debility of the female: the muscularity of the male: the variations of debility of the female: the muscularity of the male: the variations of
ethical codes: the natural grammatical transition by inversion involving ethical codes: the natural grammatical transition by inversion involving
no alteration of sense of an aorist preterite proposition (parsed as no alteration of sense of an aorist preterite proposition (parsed as
masculine subject, monosyllabic onomatopoeic transitive verb with direct masculine subject, monosyllabic onomatopoeic transitive verb with direct
feminine object) from the active voice into its correlative aorist feminine object) from the active voice into its correlative aorist
preterite proposition (parsed as feminine subject, auxiliary verb and preterite proposition (parsed as feminine subject, auxiliary verb and
quasimonosyllabic onomatopoeic past participle with complementary quasimonosyllabic onomatopoeic past participle with complementary
masculine agent) in the passive voice: the continued product of masculine agent) in the passive voice: the continued product of
seminators by generation: the continual production of semen by seminators by generation: the continual production of semen by
distillation: the futility of triumph or protest or vindication: the distillation: the futility of triumph or protest or vindication: the
inanity of extolled virtue: the lethargy of nescient matter: the apathy inanity of extolled virtue: the lethargy of nescient matter: the apathy
of the stars. of the stars.
In what final satisfaction did these antagonistic sentiments and In what final satisfaction did these antagonistic sentiments and
reflections, reduced to their simplest forms, converge? reflections, reduced to their simplest forms, converge?
Satisfaction at the ubiquity in eastern and western terrestrial Satisfaction at the ubiquity in eastern and western terrestrial
hemispheres, in all habitable lands and islands explored or unexplored hemispheres, in all habitable lands and islands explored or unexplored
(the land of the midnight sun, the islands of the blessed, the isles of (the land of the midnight sun, the islands of the blessed, the isles of
Greece, the land of promise), of adipose anterior and posterior female Greece, the land of promise), of adipose anterior and posterior female
hemispheres, redolent of milk and honey and of excretory sanguine and hemispheres, redolent of milk and honey and of excretory sanguine and
seminal warmth, reminiscent of secular families of curves of amplitude, seminal warmth, reminiscent of secular families of curves of amplitude,
insusceptible of moods of impression or of contrarieties of expression, insusceptible of moods of impression or of contrarieties of expression,
expressive of mute immutable mature animality. expressive of mute immutable mature animality.
Sighing Mr Dedalus came through the saloon, a finger soothing an Sighing Mr Dedalus came through the saloon, a finger soothing an
eyelid. eyelid.
--Hoho, we will, Ben Dollard yodled jollily. Come on, Simon. Give us a --Hoho, we will, Ben Dollard yodled jollily. Come on, Simon. Give us a
ditty. We heard the piano. ditty. We heard the piano.
Bald Pat, bothered waiter, waited for drink orders. Power for Richie. Bald Pat, bothered waiter, waited for drink orders. Power for Richie.
And Bloom? Let me see. Not make him walk twice. His corns. Four now. And Bloom? Let me see. Not make him walk twice. His corns. Four now.
How warm this black is. Course nerves a bit. Refracts (is it?) heat. Let How warm this black is. Course nerves a bit. Refracts (is it?) heat. Let
me see. Cider. Yes, bottle of cider. me see. Cider. Yes, bottle of cider.
--What's that? Mr Dedalus said. I was only vamping, man. --What's that? Mr Dedalus said. I was only vamping, man.
--Come on, come on, Ben Dollard called. Begone dull care. Come, Bob. --Come on, come on, Ben Dollard called. Begone dull care. Come, Bob.
He ambled Dollard, bulky slops, before them (hold that fellow with He ambled Dollard, bulky slops, before them (hold that fellow with
the: hold him now) into the saloon. He plumped him Dollard on the stool. the: hold him now) into the saloon. He plumped him Dollard on the stool.
His gouty paws plumped chords. Plumped, stopped abrupt. His gouty paws plumped chords. Plumped, stopped abrupt.
Bald Pat in the doorway met tealess gold returning. Bothered, he Bald Pat in the doorway met tealess gold returning. Bothered, he
wanted Power and cider. Bronze by the window, watched, bronze from wanted Power and cider. Bronze by the window, watched, bronze from
afar. afar.
Jingle a tinkle jaunted. Jingle a tinkle jaunted.
Bloom heard a jing, a little sound. He's off. Light sob of breath Bloom Bloom heard a jing, a little sound. He's off. Light sob of breath Bloom
sighed on the silent bluehued flowers. Jingling. He's gone. Jingle. Hear. sighed on the silent bluehued flowers. Jingling. He's gone. Jingle. Hear.
--Love and War, Ben, Mr Dedalus said. God be with old times. --Love and War, Ben, Mr Dedalus said. God be with old times.
Miss Douce's brave eyes, unregarded, turned from the crossblind, Miss Douce's brave eyes, unregarded, turned from the crossblind,
smitten by sunlight. Gone. Pensive (who knows?), smitten (the smiting smitten by sunlight. Gone. Pensive (who knows?), smitten (the smiting
light), she lowered the dropblind with a sliding cord. She drew down light), she lowered the dropblind with a sliding cord. She drew down
pensive (why did he go so quick when I?) about her bronze, over the bar pensive (why did he go so quick when I?) about her bronze, over the bar
where bald stood by sister gold, inexquisite contrast, contrast where bald stood by sister gold, inexquisite contrast, contrast
inexquisite nonexquisite, slow cool dim seagreen sliding depth of shadow, inexquisite nonexquisite, slow cool dim seagreen sliding depth of shadow,
EAU DE NIL. EAU DE NIL.
--Poor old Goodwin was the pianist that night, Father Cowley reminded --Poor old Goodwin was the pianist that night, Father Cowley reminded
them. There was a slight difference of opinion between himself and the them. There was a slight difference of opinion between himself and the
Collard grand. Collard grand.
There was. There was.
--A symposium all his own, Mr Dedalus said. The devil wouldn't stop him. --A symposium all his own, Mr Dedalus said. The devil wouldn't stop him.
He was a crotchety old fellow in the primary stage of drink. He was a crotchety old fellow in the primary stage of drink.
--God, do you remember? Ben bulky Dollard said, turning from the --God, do you remember? Ben bulky Dollard said, turning from the
punished keyboard. And by Japers I had no wedding garment. punished keyboard. And by Japers I had no wedding garment.
They laughed all three. He had no wed. All trio laughed. No wedding They laughed all three. He had no wed. All trio laughed. No wedding
garment. garment.
--Our friend Bloom turned in handy that night, Mr Dedalus said. Where's --Our friend Bloom turned in handy that night, Mr Dedalus said. Where's
my pipe, by the way? my pipe, by the way?
He wandered back to the bar to the lost chord pipe. Bald Pat carried He wandered back to the bar to the lost chord pipe. Bald Pat carried
two diners' drinks, Richie and Poldy. And Father Cowley laughed again. two diners' drinks, Richie and Poldy. And Father Cowley laughed again.
--I saved the situation, Ben, I think. --I saved the situation, Ben, I think.
--You did, averred Ben Dollard. I remember those tight trousers too. That --You did, averred Ben Dollard. I remember those tight trousers too. That
was a brilliant idea, Bob. was a brilliant idea, Bob.
Father Cowley blushed to his brilliant purply lobes. He saved the Father Cowley blushed to his brilliant purply lobes. He saved the
situa. Tight trou. Brilliant ide. situa. Tight trou. Brilliant ide.
--I knew he was on the rocks, he said. The wife was playing the piano in --I knew he was on the rocks, he said. The wife was playing the piano in
the coffee palace on Saturdays for a very trifling consideration and who the coffee palace on Saturdays for a very trifling consideration and who
was it gave me the wheeze she was doing the other business? Do you was it gave me the wheeze she was doing the other business? Do you
remember? We had to search all Holles street to find them till the chap in remember? We had to search all Holles street to find them till the chap in
Keogh's gave us the number. Remember? Ben remembered, his broad visage Keogh's gave us the number. Remember? Ben remembered, his broad visage
wondering. wondering.
--By God, she had some luxurious operacloaks and things there. --By God, she had some luxurious operacloaks and things there.
Mr Dedalus wandered back, pipe in hand. Mr Dedalus wandered back, pipe in hand.
--Merrion square style. Balldresses, by God, and court dresses. He --Merrion square style. Balldresses, by God, and court dresses. He
wouldn't take any money either. What? Any God's quantity of cocked hats wouldn't take any money either. What? Any God's quantity of cocked hats
and boleros and trunkhose. What? and boleros and trunkhose. What?
--Ay, ay, Mr Dedalus nodded. Mrs Marion Bloom has left off clothes of all --Ay, ay, Mr Dedalus nodded. Mrs Marion Bloom has left off clothes of all
descriptions. descriptions.
Jingle jaunted down the quays. Blazes sprawled on bounding tyres. Jingle jaunted down the quays. Blazes sprawled on bounding tyres.
Liver and bacon. Steak and kidney pie. Right, sir. Right, Pat. Liver and bacon. Steak and kidney pie. Right, sir. Right, Pat.
Mrs Marion. Met him pike hoses. Smell of burn. Of Paul de Kock. Nice Mrs Marion. Met him pike hoses. Smell of burn. Of Paul de Kock. Nice
name he. name he.
--What's this her name was? A buxom lassy. Marion ... --What's this her name was? A buxom lassy. Marion ...
--Tweedy. --Tweedy.
--Yes. Is she alive? --Yes. Is she alive?
--And kicking. --And kicking.
--She was a daughter of ... --She was a daughter of ...
--Daughter of the regiment. --Daughter of the regiment.
--Yes, begad. I remember the old drummajor. --Yes, begad. I remember the old drummajor.
Mr Dedalus struck, whizzed, lit, puffed savoury puff after Mr Dedalus struck, whizzed, lit, puffed savoury puff after
--Irish? I don't know, faith. Is she, Simon? --Irish? I don't know, faith. Is she, Simon?
Puff after stiff, a puff, strong, savoury, crackling. Puff after stiff, a puff, strong, savoury, crackling.
--Buccinator muscle is ... What? ... Bit rusty ... O, she is ... My --Buccinator muscle is ... What? ... Bit rusty ... O, she is ... My
Irish Molly, O. Irish Molly, O.
He puffed a pungent plumy blast. He puffed a pungent plumy blast.
--From the rock of Gibraltar... all the way. --From the rock of Gibraltar... all the way.
They pined in depth of ocean shadow, gold by the beerpull, bronze by They pined in depth of ocean shadow, gold by the beerpull, bronze by
maraschino, thoughtful all two. Mina Kennedy, 4 Lismore terrace, maraschino, thoughtful all two. Mina Kennedy, 4 Lismore terrace,
Drumcondra with Idolores, a queen, Dolores, silent. Drumcondra with Idolores, a queen, Dolores, silent.
Pat served, uncovered dishes. Leopold cut liverslices. As said before he Pat served, uncovered dishes. Leopold cut liverslices. As said before he
ate with relish the inner organs, nutty gizzards, fried cods' roes while ate with relish the inner organs, nutty gizzards, fried cods' roes while
Richie Goulding, Collis, Ward ate steak and kidney, steak then kidney, Richie Goulding, Collis, Ward ate steak and kidney, steak then kidney,
bite by bite of pie he ate Bloom ate they ate. bite by bite of pie he ate Bloom ate they ate.
Bloom with Goulding, married in silence, ate. Dinners fit for princes. Bloom with Goulding, married in silence, ate. Dinners fit for princes.
By Bachelor's walk jogjaunty jingled Blazes Boylan, bachelor, in sun By Bachelor's walk jogjaunty jingled Blazes Boylan, bachelor, in sun
in heat, mare's glossy rump atrot, with flick of whip, on bounding tyres: in heat, mare's glossy rump atrot, with flick of whip, on bounding tyres:
sprawled, warmseated, Boylan impatience, ardentbold. Horn. Have you sprawled, warmseated, Boylan impatience, ardentbold. Horn. Have you
the? Horn. Have you the? Haw haw horn. the? Horn. Have you the? Haw haw horn.
Over their voices Dollard bassooned attack, booming over bombarding Over their voices Dollard bassooned attack, booming over bombarding
chords: chords:
--WHEN LOVE ABSORBS MY ARDENT SOUL ... --WHEN LOVE ABSORBS MY ARDENT SOUL ...
Roll of Bensoulbenjamin rolled to the quivery loveshivery roofpanes. Roll of Bensoulbenjamin rolled to the quivery loveshivery roofpanes.
--War! War! cried Father Cowley. You're the warrior. --War! War! cried Father Cowley. You're the warrior.
--So I am, Ben Warrior laughed. I was thinking of your landlord. Love or --So I am, Ben Warrior laughed. I was thinking of your landlord. Love or
money. money.
He stopped. He wagged huge beard, huge face over his blunder huge. He stopped. He wagged huge beard, huge face over his blunder huge.
--Sure, you'd burst the tympanum of her ear, man, Mr Dedalus said --Sure, you'd burst the tympanum of her ear, man, Mr Dedalus said
through smoke aroma, with an organ like yours. through smoke aroma, with an organ like yours.
In bearded abundant laughter Dollard shook upon the keyboard. He In bearded abundant laughter Dollard shook upon the keyboard. He
would. would.
--Not to mention another membrane, Father Cowley added. Half time, --Not to mention another membrane, Father Cowley added. Half time,
Ben. AMOROSO MA NON TROPPO. Let me there. Ben. AMOROSO MA NON TROPPO. Let me there.
Miss Kennedy served two gentlemen with tankards of cool stout. She Miss Kennedy served two gentlemen with tankards of cool stout. She
passed a remark. It was indeed, first gentleman said, beautiful weather. passed a remark. It was indeed, first gentleman said, beautiful weather.
They drank cool stout. Did she know where the lord lieutenant was going? They drank cool stout. Did she know where the lord lieutenant was going?
And heard steelhoofs ringhoof ring. No, she couldn't say. But it would be And heard steelhoofs ringhoof ring. No, she couldn't say. But it would be
in the paper. O, she need not trouble. No trouble. She waved about her in the paper. O, she need not trouble. No trouble. She waved about her
outspread INDEPENDENT, searching, the lord lieutenant, her pinnacles of outspread INDEPENDENT, searching, the lord lieutenant, her pinnacles of
hair slowmoving, lord lieuten. Too much trouble, first gentleman said. O, hair slowmoving, lord lieuten. Too much trouble, first gentleman said. O,
not in the least. Way he looked that. Lord lieutenant. Gold by bronze not in the least. Way he looked that. Lord lieutenant. Gold by bronze
heard iron steel. heard iron steel.
-- ............ MY ARDENT SOUL -- ............ MY ARDENT SOUL
    I CARE NOT FOROR THE MORROW.     I CARE NOT FOROR THE MORROW.
In liver gravy Bloom mashed mashed potatoes. Love and War In liver gravy Bloom mashed mashed potatoes. Love and War
someone is. Ben Dollard's famous. Night he ran round to us to borrow a someone is. Ben Dollard's famous. Night he ran round to us to borrow a
dress suit for that concert. Trousers tight as a drum on him. Musical dress suit for that concert. Trousers tight as a drum on him. Musical
porkers. Molly did laugh when he went out. Threw herself back across the porkers. Molly did laugh when he went out. Threw herself back across the
bed, screaming, kicking. With all his belongings on show. O saints above, bed, screaming, kicking. With all his belongings on show. O saints above,
I'm drenched! O, the women in the front row! O, I never laughed so many! I'm drenched! O, the women in the front row! O, I never laughed so many!
Well, of course that's what gives him the base barreltone. For instance Well, of course that's what gives him the base barreltone. For instance
eunuchs. Wonder who's playing. Nice touch. Must be Cowley. Musical. eunuchs. Wonder who's playing. Nice touch. Must be Cowley. Musical.
Knows whatever note you play. Bad breath he has, poor chap. Stopped. Knows whatever note you play. Bad breath he has, poor chap. Stopped.
Miss Douce, engaging, Lydia Douce, bowed to suave solicitor, George Miss Douce, engaging, Lydia Douce, bowed to suave solicitor, George
Lidwell, gentleman, entering. Good afternoon. She gave her moist Lidwell, gentleman, entering. Good afternoon. She gave her moist
(a lady's) hand to his firm clasp. Afternoon. Yes, she was back. To the (a lady's) hand to his firm clasp. Afternoon. Yes, she was back. To the
old dingdong again. old dingdong again.
--Your friends are inside, Mr Lidwell. --Your friends are inside, Mr Lidwell.
George Lidwell, suave, solicited, held a lydiahand. George Lidwell, suave, solicited, held a lydiahand.
Bloom ate liv as said before. Clean here at least. That chap in the Bloom ate liv as said before. Clean here at least. That chap in the
Burton, gummy with gristle. No-one here: Goulding and I. Clean tables, Burton, gummy with gristle. No-one here: Goulding and I. Clean tables,
flowers, mitres of napkins. Pat to and fro. Bald Pat. Nothing to do. Best flowers, mitres of napkins. Pat to and fro. Bald Pat. Nothing to do. Best
value in Dub. value in Dub.
Piano again. Cowley it is. Way he sits in to it, like one together, Piano again. Cowley it is. Way he sits in to it, like one together,
mutual understanding. Tiresome shapers scraping fiddles, eye on the mutual understanding. Tiresome shapers scraping fiddles, eye on the
bowend, sawing the cello, remind you of toothache. Her high long snore. bowend, sawing the cello, remind you of toothache. Her high long snore.
Night we were in the box. Trombone under blowing like a grampus, Night we were in the box. Trombone under blowing like a grampus,
between the acts, other brass chap unscrewing, emptying spittle. between the acts, other brass chap unscrewing, emptying spittle.
Conductor's legs too, bagstrousers, jiggedy jiggedy. Do right to hide Conductor's legs too, bagstrousers, jiggedy jiggedy. Do right to hide
them. them.
Jiggedy jingle jaunty jaunty. Jiggedy jingle jaunty jaunty.
Only the harp. Lovely. Gold glowering light. Girl touched it. Poop of Only the harp. Lovely. Gold glowering light. Girl touched it. Poop of
a lovely. Gravy's rather good fit for a. Golden ship. Erin. The harp that a lovely. Gravy's rather good fit for a. Golden ship. Erin. The harp that
once or twice. Cool hands. Ben Howth, the rhododendrons. We are their once or twice. Cool hands. Ben Howth, the rhododendrons. We are their
harps. I. He. Old. Young. harps. I. He. Old. Young.
--Ah, I couldn't, man, Mr Dedalus said, shy, listless. --Ah, I couldn't, man, Mr Dedalus said, shy, listless.
Strongly. Strongly.
--Go on, blast you! Ben Dollard growled. Get it out in bits. --Go on, blast you! Ben Dollard growled. Get it out in bits.
--M'APPARI, Simon, Father Cowley said. --M'APPARI, Simon, Father Cowley said.
Down stage he strode some paces, grave, tall in affliction, his long Down stage he strode some paces, grave, tall in affliction, his long
arms outheld. Hoarsely the apple of his throat hoarsed softly. Softly he arms outheld. Hoarsely the apple of his throat hoarsed softly. Softly he
sang to a dusty seascape there: A LAST FAREWELL. A headland, a ship, a sang to a dusty seascape there: A LAST FAREWELL. A headland, a ship, a
sail upon the billows. Farewell. A lovely girl, her veil awave upon the sail upon the billows. Farewell. A lovely girl, her veil awave upon the
wind upon the headland, wind around her. wind upon the headland, wind around her.
Cowley sang: Cowley sang:
--M'APPARI TUTT'AMOR: --M'APPARI TUTT'AMOR:
IL MIO SGUARDO L'INCONTR ... IL MIO SGUARDO L'INCONTR ...
She waved, unhearing Cowley, her veil, to one departing, dear one, to She waved, unhearing Cowley, her veil, to one departing, dear one, to
wind, love, speeding sail, return. wind, love, speeding sail, return.
--Go on, Simon. --Go on, Simon.
--Ah, sure, my dancing days are done, Ben ... Well ... --Ah, sure, my dancing days are done, Ben ... Well ...
Mr Dedalus laid his pipe to rest beside the tuningfork and, sitting, Mr Dedalus laid his pipe to rest beside the tuningfork and, sitting,
touched the obedient keys. touched the obedient keys.
--No, Simon, Father Cowley turned. Play it in the original. One flat. --No, Simon, Father Cowley turned. Play it in the original. One flat.
The keys, obedient, rose higher, told, faltered, confessed, confused. The keys, obedient, rose higher, told, faltered, confessed, confused.
Up stage strode Father Cowley. Up stage strode Father Cowley.
--Here, Simon, I'll accompany you, he said. Get up. --Here, Simon, I'll accompany you, he said. Get up.
By Graham Lemon's pineapple rock, by Elvery's elephant jingly By Graham Lemon's pineapple rock, by Elvery's elephant jingly
jogged. Steak, kidney, liver, mashed, at meat fit for princes sat princes jogged. Steak, kidney, liver, mashed, at meat fit for princes sat princes
Bloom and Goulding. Princes at meat they raised and drank, Power and Bloom and Goulding. Princes at meat they raised and drank, Power and
cider. cider.
Most beautiful tenor air ever written, Richie said: SONNAMBULA. He Most beautiful tenor air ever written, Richie said: SONNAMBULA. He
morbidminded esthete and embryo philosopher who for all his overweening morbidminded esthete and embryo philosopher who for all his overweening
bumptiousness in things scientific can scarcely distinguish an acid from bumptiousness in things scientific can scarcely distinguish an acid from
an alkali prides himself on being, it should perhaps be stated that an alkali prides himself on being, it should perhaps be stated that
staggering bob in the vile parlance of our lowerclass licensed staggering bob in the vile parlance of our lowerclass licensed
victuallers signifies the cookable and eatable flesh of a calf newly victuallers signifies the cookable and eatable flesh of a calf newly
dropped from its mother. In a recent public controversy with Mr L. Bloom dropped from its mother. In a recent public controversy with Mr L. Bloom
(Pubb. Canv.) which took place in the commons' hall of the National (Pubb. Canv.) which took place in the commons' hall of the National
Maternity Hospital, 29, 30 and 31 Holles street, of which, as is well Maternity Hospital, 29, 30 and 31 Holles street, of which, as is well
known, Dr A. Horne (Lic. in Midw., F. K. Q. C. P. I.) is the able and known, Dr A. Horne (Lic. in Midw., F. K. Q. C. P. I.) is the able and
popular master, he is reported by eyewitnesses as having stated that once popular master, he is reported by eyewitnesses as having stated that once
a woman has let the cat into the bag (an esthete's allusion, presumably, a woman has let the cat into the bag (an esthete's allusion, presumably,
to one of the most complicated and marvellous of all nature's processes-- to one of the most complicated and marvellous of all nature's processes--
the act of sexual congress) she must let it out again or give it life, as the act of sexual congress) she must let it out again or give it life, as
he phrased it, to save her own. At the risk of her own, was the telling he phrased it, to save her own. At the risk of her own, was the telling
rejoinder of his interlocutor, none the less effective for the moderate rejoinder of his interlocutor, none the less effective for the moderate
and measured tone in which it was delivered. and measured tone in which it was delivered.
Meanwhile the skill and patience of the physician had brought about a Meanwhile the skill and patience of the physician had brought about a
happy ACCOUCHEMENT. It had been a weary weary while both for patient and happy ACCOUCHEMENT. It had been a weary weary while both for patient and
doctor. All that surgical skill could do was done and the brave woman had doctor. All that surgical skill could do was done and the brave woman had
manfully helped. She had. She had fought the good fight and now she was manfully helped. She had. She had fought the good fight and now she was
very very happy. Those who have passed on, who have gone before, are very very happy. Those who have passed on, who have gone before, are
happy too as they gaze down and smile upon the touching scene. Reverently happy too as they gaze down and smile upon the touching scene. Reverently
look at her as she reclines there with the motherlight in her eyes, that look at her as she reclines there with the motherlight in her eyes, that
longing hunger for baby fingers (a pretty sight it is to see), in the longing hunger for baby fingers (a pretty sight it is to see), in the
first bloom of her new motherhood, breathing a silent prayer of first bloom of her new motherhood, breathing a silent prayer of
thanksgiving to One above, the Universal Husband. And as her loving eyes thanksgiving to One above, the Universal Husband. And as her loving eyes
behold her babe she wishes only one blessing more, to have her dear Doady behold her babe she wishes only one blessing more, to have her dear Doady
there with her to share her joy, to lay in his arms that mite of God's there with her to share her joy, to lay in his arms that mite of God's
clay, the fruit of their lawful embraces. He is older now (you and I may clay, the fruit of their lawful embraces. He is older now (you and I may
whisper it) and a trifle stooped in the shoulders yet in the whirligig of whisper it) and a trifle stooped in the shoulders yet in the whirligig of
years a grave dignity has come to the conscientious second accountant of years a grave dignity has come to the conscientious second accountant of
the Ulster bank, College Green branch. O Doady, loved one of old, the Ulster bank, College Green branch. O Doady, loved one of old,
faithful lifemate now, it may never be again, that faroff time of the faithful lifemate now, it may never be again, that faroff time of the
roses! With the old shake of her pretty head she recalls those days. God! roses! With the old shake of her pretty head she recalls those days. God!
How beautiful now across the mist of years! But their children are How beautiful now across the mist of years! But their children are
grouped in her imagination about the bedside, hers and his, Charley, Mary grouped in her imagination about the bedside, hers and his, Charley, Mary
Alice, Frederick Albert (if he had lived), Mamy, Budgy (Victoria Alice, Frederick Albert (if he had lived), Mamy, Budgy (Victoria
Frances), Tom, Violet Constance Louisa, darling little Bobsy (called Frances), Tom, Violet Constance Louisa, darling little Bobsy (called
after our famous hero of the South African war, lord Bobs of Waterford after our famous hero of the South African war, lord Bobs of Waterford
and Candahar) and now this last pledge of their union, a Purefoy if ever and Candahar) and now this last pledge of their union, a Purefoy if ever
there was one, with the true Purefoy nose. Young hopeful will be there was one, with the true Purefoy nose. Young hopeful will be
christened Mortimer Edward after the influential third cousin of Mr christened Mortimer Edward after the influential third cousin of Mr
Purefoy in the Treasury Remembrancer's office, Dublin Castle. And so time Purefoy in the Treasury Remembrancer's office, Dublin Castle. And so time
wags on: but father Cronion has dealt lightly here. No, let no sigh break wags on: but father Cronion has dealt lightly here. No, let no sigh break
from that bosom, dear gentle Mina. And Doady, knock the ashes from your from that bosom, dear gentle Mina. And Doady, knock the ashes from your
pipe, the seasoned briar you still fancy when the curfew rings for you pipe, the seasoned briar you still fancy when the curfew rings for you
(may it be the distant day!) and dout the light whereby you read in the (may it be the distant day!) and dout the light whereby you read in the
Sacred Book for the oil too has run low, and so with a tranquil heart to Sacred Book for the oil too has run low, and so with a tranquil heart to
bed, to rest. He knows and will call in His own good time. You too have bed, to rest. He knows and will call in His own good time. You too have
fought the good fight and played loyally your man's part. Sir, to you my fought the good fight and played loyally your man's part. Sir, to you my
hand. Well done, thou good and faithful servant! hand. Well done, thou good and faithful servant!
There are sins or (let us call them as the world calls them) evil There are sins or (let us call them as the world calls them) evil
memories which are hidden away by man in the darkest places of the heart memories which are hidden away by man in the darkest places of the heart
but they abide there and wait. He may suffer their memory to grow dim, but they abide there and wait. He may suffer their memory to grow dim,
let them be as though they had not been and all but persuade himself that let them be as though they had not been and all but persuade himself that
they were not or at least were otherwise. Yet a chance word will call they were not or at least were otherwise. Yet a chance word will call
them forth suddenly and they will rise up to confront him in the most them forth suddenly and they will rise up to confront him in the most
various circumstances, a vision or a dream, or while timbrel and harp various circumstances, a vision or a dream, or while timbrel and harp
soothe his senses or amid the cool silver tranquility of the evening or soothe his senses or amid the cool silver tranquility of the evening or
at the feast, at midnight, when he is now filled with wine. Not to insult at the feast, at midnight, when he is now filled with wine. Not to insult
over him will the vision come as over one that lies under her wrath, not over him will the vision come as over one that lies under her wrath, not
for vengeance to cut him off from the living but shrouded in the piteous for vengeance to cut him off from the living but shrouded in the piteous
vesture of the past, silent, remote, reproachful. vesture of the past, silent, remote, reproachful.
The stranger still regarded on the face before him a slow recession of The stranger still regarded on the face before him a slow recession of
that false calm there, imposed, as it seemed, by habit or some studied that false calm there, imposed, as it seemed, by habit or some studied
trick, upon words so embittered as to accuse in their speaker an trick, upon words so embittered as to accuse in their speaker an
unhealthiness, a FLAIR, for the cruder things of life. A scene disengages unhealthiness, a FLAIR, for the cruder things of life. A scene disengages
itself in the observer's memory, evoked, it would seem, by a word of so itself in the observer's memory, evoked, it would seem, by a word of so
natural a homeliness as if those days were really present there (as some natural a homeliness as if those days were really present there (as some
thought) with their immediate pleasures. A shaven space of lawn one soft thought) with their immediate pleasures. A shaven space of lawn one soft
May evening, the wellremembered grove of lilacs at Roundtown, purple and May evening, the wellremembered grove of lilacs at Roundtown, purple and
white, fragrant slender spectators of the game but with much real white, fragrant slender spectators of the game but with much real
interest in the pellets as they run slowly forward over the sward or interest in the pellets as they run slowly forward over the sward or
collide and stop, one by its fellow, with a brief alert shock. And yonder collide and stop, one by its fellow, with a brief alert shock. And yonder
about that grey urn where the water moves at times in thoughtful about that grey urn where the water moves at times in thoughtful
irrigation you saw another as fragrant sisterhood, Floey, Atty, Tiny and irrigation you saw another as fragrant sisterhood, Floey, Atty, Tiny and
their darker friend with I know not what of arresting in her pose then, their darker friend with I know not what of arresting in her pose then,
Our Lady of the Cherries, a comely brace of them pendent from an ear, Our Lady of the Cherries, a comely brace of them pendent from an ear,
bringing out the foreign warmth of the skin so daintily against the cool bringing out the foreign warmth of the skin so daintily against the cool
ardent fruit. A lad of four or five in linseywoolsey (blossomtime but ardent fruit. A lad of four or five in linseywoolsey (blossomtime but
there will be cheer in the kindly hearth when ere long the bowls are there will be cheer in the kindly hearth when ere long the bowls are
gathered and hutched) is standing on the urn secured by that circle of gathered and hutched) is standing on the urn secured by that circle of
girlish fond hands. He frowns a little just as this young man does now girlish fond hands. He frowns a little just as this young man does now
with a perhaps too conscious enjoyment of the danger but must needs with a perhaps too conscious enjoyment of the danger but must needs
glance at whiles towards where his mother watches from the PIAZZETTA glance at whiles towards where his mother watches from the PIAZZETTA
giving upon the flowerclose with a faint shadow of remoteness or of giving upon the flowerclose with a faint shadow of remoteness or of
reproach (ALLES VERGANGLICHE) in her glad look. reproach (ALLES VERGANGLICHE) in her glad look.
Mark this farther and remember. The end comes suddenly. Enter that Mark this farther and remember. The end comes suddenly. Enter that
antechamber of birth where the studious are assembled and note their antechamber of birth where the studious are assembled and note their
faces. Nothing, as it seems, there of rash or violent. Quietude of faces. Nothing, as it seems, there of rash or violent. Quietude of
custody, rather, befitting their station in that house, the vigilant custody, rather, befitting their station in that house, the vigilant
watch of shepherds and of angels about a crib in Bethlehem of Juda long watch of shepherds and of angels about a crib in Bethlehem of Juda long
ago. But as before the lightning the serried stormclouds, heavy with ago. But as before the lightning the serried stormclouds, heavy with
preponderant excess of moisture, in swollen masses turgidly distended, preponderant excess of moisture, in swollen masses turgidly distended,
compass earth and sky in one vast slumber, impending above parched field compass earth and sky in one vast slumber, impending above parched field
and drowsy oxen and blighted growth of shrub and verdure till in an and drowsy oxen and blighted growth of shrub and verdure till in an
instant a flash rives their centres and with the reverberation of the instant a flash rives their centres and with the reverberation of the
thunder the cloudburst pours its torrent, so and not otherwise was the thunder the cloudburst pours its torrent, so and not otherwise was the
transformation, violent and instantaneous, upon the utterance of the transformation, violent and instantaneous, upon the utterance of the
word. word.
Burke's! outflings my lord Stephen, giving the cry, and a tag and bobtail Burke's! outflings my lord Stephen, giving the cry, and a tag and bobtail
of all them after, cockerel, jackanapes, welsher, pilldoctor, punctual of all them after, cockerel, jackanapes, welsher, pilldoctor, punctual
Bloom at heels with a universal grabbing at headgear, ashplants, bilbos, Bloom at heels with a universal grabbing at headgear, ashplants, bilbos,
Panama hats and scabbards, Zermatt alpenstocks and what not. A dedale of Panama hats and scabbards, Zermatt alpenstocks and what not. A dedale of
lusty youth, noble every student there. Nurse Callan taken aback in the lusty youth, noble every student there. Nurse Callan taken aback in the
hallway cannot stay them nor smiling surgeon coming downstairs with news hallway cannot stay them nor smiling surgeon coming downstairs with news
of placentation ended, a full pound if a milligramme. They hark him on. of placentation ended, a full pound if a milligramme. They hark him on.
The door! It is open? Ha! They are out, tumultuously, off for a minute's The door! It is open? Ha! They are out, tumultuously, off for a minute's
race, all bravely legging it, Burke's of Denzille and Holles their race, all bravely legging it, Burke's of Denzille and Holles their
ulterior goal. Dixon follows giving them sharp language but raps out an ulterior goal. Dixon follows giving them sharp language but raps out an
oath, he too, and on. Bloom stays with nurse a thought to send a kind oath, he too, and on. Bloom stays with nurse a thought to send a kind
word to happy mother and nurseling up there. Doctor Diet and Doctor word to happy mother and nurseling up there. Doctor Diet and Doctor
Quiet. Looks she too not other now? Ward of watching in Horne's house has Quiet. Looks she too not other now? Ward of watching in Horne's house has
told its tale in that washedout pallor. Then all being gone, a glance of told its tale in that washedout pallor. Then all being gone, a glance of
motherwit helping, he whispers close in going: Madam, when comes the motherwit helping, he whispers close in going: Madam, when comes the
storkbird for thee? storkbird for thee?
The air without is impregnated with raindew moisture, life essence The air without is impregnated with raindew moisture, life essence
celestial, glistening on Dublin stone there under starshiny COELUM. God's celestial, glistening on Dublin stone there under starshiny COELUM. God's
air, the Allfather's air, scintillant circumambient cessile air. Breathe air, the Allfather's air, scintillant circumambient cessile air. Breathe
it deep into thee. By heaven, Theodore Purefoy, thou hast done a doughty it deep into thee. By heaven, Theodore Purefoy, thou hast done a doughty
deed and no botch! Thou art, I vow, the remarkablest progenitor barring deed and no botch! Thou art, I vow, the remarkablest progenitor barring
none in this chaffering allincluding most farraginous chronicle. none in this chaffering allincluding most farraginous chronicle.
Astounding! In her lay a Godframed Godgiven preformed possibility which Astounding! In her lay a Godframed Godgiven preformed possibility which
thou hast fructified with thy modicum of man's work. Cleave to her! thou hast fructified with thy modicum of man's work. Cleave to her!
Serve! Toil on, labour like a very bandog and let scholarment and all Serve! Toil on, labour like a very bandog and let scholarment and all
Malthusiasts go hang. Thou art all their daddies, Theodore. Art drooping Malthusiasts go hang. Thou art all their daddies, Theodore. Art drooping
under thy load, bemoiled with butcher's bills at home and ingots (not under thy load, bemoiled with butcher's bills at home and ingots (not
thine!) in the countinghouse? Head up! For every newbegotten thou shalt thine!) in the countinghouse? Head up! For every newbegotten thou shalt
gather thy homer of ripe wheat. See, thy fleece is drenched. Dost envy gather thy homer of ripe wheat. See, thy fleece is drenched. Dost envy
Darby Dullman there with his Joan? A canting jay and a rheumeyed curdog Darby Dullman there with his Joan? A canting jay and a rheumeyed curdog
is all their progeny. Pshaw, I tell thee! He is a mule, a dead is all their progeny. Pshaw, I tell thee! He is a mule, a dead
gasteropod, without vim or stamina, not worth a cracked kreutzer. gasteropod, without vim or stamina, not worth a cracked kreutzer.
Copulation without population! No, say I! Herod's slaughter of the Copulation without population! No, say I! Herod's slaughter of the
innocents were the truer name. Vegetables, forsooth, and sterile innocents were the truer name. Vegetables, forsooth, and sterile
cohabitation! Give her beefsteaks, red, raw, bleeding! She is a hoary cohabitation! Give her beefsteaks, red, raw, bleeding! She is a hoary
pandemonium of ills, enlarged glands, mumps, quinsy, bunions, hayfever, pandemonium of ills, enlarged glands, mumps, quinsy, bunions, hayfever,
bedsores, ringworm, floating kidney, Derbyshire neck, warts, bilious bedsores, ringworm, floating kidney, Derbyshire neck, warts, bilious
attacks, gallstones, cold feet, varicose veins. A truce to threnes and attacks, gallstones, cold feet, varicose veins. A truce to threnes and
trentals and jeremies and all such congenital defunctive music! Twenty trentals and jeremies and all such congenital defunctive music! Twenty
years of it, regret them not. With thee it was not as with many that will years of it, regret them not. With thee it was not as with many that will
and would and wait and never--do. Thou sawest thy America, thy lifetask, and would and wait and never--do. Thou sawest thy America, thy lifetask,
and didst charge to cover like the transpontine bison. How saith and didst charge to cover like the transpontine bison. How saith
Zarathustra? DEINE KUH TRUBSAL MELKEST DU. NUN TRINKST DU DIE SUSSE MILCH Zarathustra? DEINE KUH TRUBSAL MELKEST DU. NUN TRINKST DU DIE SUSSE MILCH
DES EUTERS. See! it displodes for thee in abundance. Drink, man, an DES EUTERS. See! it displodes for thee in abundance. Drink, man, an
udderful! Mother's milk, Purefoy, the milk of human kin, milk too of udderful! Mother's milk, Purefoy, the milk of human kin, milk too of
those burgeoning stars overhead rutilant in thin rainvapour, punch milk, those burgeoning stars overhead rutilant in thin rainvapour, punch milk,
such as those rioters will quaff in their guzzling den, milk of madness, such as those rioters will quaff in their guzzling den, milk of madness,
the honeymilk of Canaan's land. Thy cow's dug was tough, what? Ay, but the honeymilk of Canaan's land. Thy cow's dug was tough, what? Ay, but
her milk is hot and sweet and fattening. No dollop this but thick rich her milk is hot and sweet and fattening. No dollop this but thick rich
bonnyclaber. To her, old patriarch! Pap! PER DEAM PARTULAM ET PERTUNDAM bonnyclaber. To her, old patriarch! Pap! PER DEAM PARTULAM ET PERTUNDAM
NUNC EST BIBENDUM! NUNC EST BIBENDUM!
All off for a buster, armstrong, hollering down the street. Bonafides. All off for a buster, armstrong, hollering down the street. Bonafides.
Where you slep las nigh? Timothy of the battered naggin. Like ole Billyo. Where you slep las nigh? Timothy of the battered naggin. Like ole Billyo.
Any brollies or gumboots in the fambly? Where the Henry Nevil's sawbones Any brollies or gumboots in the fambly? Where the Henry Nevil's sawbones
and ole clo? Sorra one o' me knows. Hurrah there, Dix! Forward to the and ole clo? Sorra one o' me knows. Hurrah there, Dix! Forward to the
ribbon counter. Where's Punch? All serene. Jay, look at the drunken ribbon counter. Where's Punch? All serene. Jay, look at the drunken
minister coming out of the maternity hospal! BENEDICAT VOS OMNIPOTENS minister coming out of the maternity hospal! BENEDICAT VOS OMNIPOTENS
DEUS, PATER ET FILIUS. A make, mister. The Denzille lane boys. Hell, DEUS, PATER ET FILIUS. A make, mister. The Denzille lane boys. Hell,
blast ye! Scoot. Righto, Isaacs, shove em out of the bleeding limelight. blast ye! Scoot. Righto, Isaacs, shove em out of the bleeding limelight.
Yous join uz, dear sir? No hentrusion in life. Lou heap good man. Allee Yous join uz, dear sir? No hentrusion in life. Lou heap good man. Allee
samee dis bunch. EN AVANT, MES ENFANTS! Fire away number one on the gun. samee dis bunch. EN AVANT, MES ENFANTS! Fire away number one on the gun.
Burke's! Burke's! Thence they advanced five parasangs. Slattery's mounted Burke's! Burke's! Thence they advanced five parasangs. Slattery's mounted
foot. Where's that bleeding awfur? Parson Steve, apostates' creed! No, foot. Where's that bleeding awfur? Parson Steve, apostates' creed! No,
no, Mulligan! Abaft there! Shove ahead. Keep a watch on the clock. no, Mulligan! Abaft there! Shove ahead. Keep a watch on the clock.
Chuckingout time. Mullee! What's on you? MA MERE M'A MARIEE. British Chuckingout time. Mullee! What's on you? MA MERE M'A MARIEE. British
Beatitudes! RETAMPLATAN DIGIDI BOUMBOUM. Ayes have it. To be printed and Beatitudes! RETAMPLATAN DIGIDI BOUMBOUM. Ayes have it. To be printed and
bound at the Druiddrum press by two designing females. Calf covers of bound at the Druiddrum press by two designing females. Calf covers of
pissedon green. Last word in art shades. Most beautiful book come out of pissedon green. Last word in art shades. Most beautiful book come out of
Ireland my time. SILENTIUM! Get a spurt on. Tention. Proceed to nearest Ireland my time. SILENTIUM! Get a spurt on. Tention. Proceed to nearest
canteen and there annex liquor stores. March! Tramp, tramp, tramp, the canteen and there annex liquor stores. March! Tramp, tramp, tramp, the
boys are (atitudes!) parching. Beer, beef, business, bibles, bulldogs boys are (atitudes!) parching. Beer, beef, business, bibles, bulldogs
battleships, buggery and bishops. Whether on the scaffold high. Beer, battleships, buggery and bishops. Whether on the scaffold high. Beer,
beef, trample the bibles. When for Irelandear. Trample the trampellers. beef, trample the bibles. When for Irelandear. Trample the trampellers.
Thunderation! Keep the durned millingtary step. We fall. Bishops Thunderation! Keep the durned millingtary step. We fall. Bishops
boosebox. Halt! Heave to. Rugger. Scrum in. No touch kicking. Wow, my boosebox. Halt! Heave to. Rugger. Scrum in. No touch kicking. Wow, my
tootsies! You hurt? Most amazingly sorry! tootsies! You hurt? Most amazingly sorry!
Query. Who's astanding this here do? Proud possessor of damnall. Declare Query. Who's astanding this here do? Proud possessor of damnall. Declare
misery. Bet to the ropes. Me nantee saltee. Not a red at me this week misery. Bet to the ropes. Me nantee saltee. Not a red at me this week
gone. Yours? Mead of our fathers for the UBERMENSCH. Dittoh. Five number gone. Yours? Mead of our fathers for the UBERMENSCH. Dittoh. Five number
ones. You, sir? Ginger cordial. Chase me, the cabby's caudle. Stimulate ones. You, sir? Ginger cordial. Chase me, the cabby's caudle. Stimulate
the caloric. Winding of his ticker. Stopped short never to go again when the caloric. Winding of his ticker. Stopped short never to go again when
the old. Absinthe for me, savvy? CARAMBA! Have an eggnog or a prairie the old. Absinthe for me, savvy? CARAMBA! Have an eggnog or a prairie
oyster. Enemy? Avuncular's got my timepiece. Ten to. Obligated awful. oyster. Enemy? Avuncular's got my timepiece. Ten to. Obligated awful.
Don't mention it. Got a pectoral trauma, eh, Dix? Pos fact. Got bet be a Don't mention it. Got a pectoral trauma, eh, Dix? Pos fact. Got bet be a
boomblebee whenever he wus settin sleepin in hes bit garten. Digs up near boomblebee whenever he wus settin sleepin in hes bit garten. Digs up near
the Mater. Buckled he is. Know his dona? Yup, sartin I do. Full of a the Mater. Buckled he is. Know his dona? Yup, sartin I do. Full of a
dure. See her in her dishybilly. Peels off a credit. Lovey lovekin. None dure. See her in her dishybilly. Peels off a credit. Lovey lovekin. None
of your lean kine, not much. Pull down the blind, love. Two Ardilauns. of your lean kine, not much. Pull down the blind, love. Two Ardilauns.
Same here. Look slippery. If you fall don't wait to get up. Five, seven, Same here. Look slippery. If you fall don't wait to get up. Five, seven,
nine. Fine! Got a prime pair of mincepies, no kid. And her take me to nine. Fine! Got a prime pair of mincepies, no kid. And her take me to
rests and her anker of rum. Must be seen to be believed. Your starving rests and her anker of rum. Must be seen to be believed. Your starving
eyes and allbeplastered neck you stole my heart, O gluepot. Sir? Spud eyes and allbeplastered neck you stole my heart, O gluepot. Sir? Spud
again the rheumatiz? All poppycock, you'll scuse me saying. For the hoi again the rheumatiz? All poppycock, you'll scuse me saying. For the hoi
polloi. I vear thee beest a gert vool. Well, doc? Back fro Lapland? Your polloi. I vear thee beest a gert vool. Well, doc? Back fro Lapland? Your
corporosity sagaciating O K? How's the squaws and papooses? Womanbody corporosity sagaciating O K? How's the squaws and papooses? Womanbody
after going on the straw? Stand and deliver. Password. There's hair. Ours after going on the straw? Stand and deliver. Password. There's hair. Ours
the white death and the ruddy birth. Hi! Spit in your own eye, boss! the white death and the ruddy birth. Hi! Spit in your own eye, boss!
Mummer's wire. Cribbed out of Meredith. Jesified, orchidised, polycimical Mummer's wire. Cribbed out of Meredith. Jesified, orchidised, polycimical
jesuit! Aunty mine's writing Pa Kinch. Baddybad Stephen lead astray jesuit! Aunty mine's writing Pa Kinch. Baddybad Stephen lead astray
goodygood Malachi. goodygood Malachi.
Hurroo! Collar the leather, youngun. Roun wi the nappy. Here, Jock braw Hurroo! Collar the leather, youngun. Roun wi the nappy. Here, Jock braw
Hielentman's your barleybree. Lang may your lum reek and your kailpot Hielentman's your barleybree. Lang may your lum reek and your kailpot
boil! My tipple. MERCI. Here's to us. How's that? Leg before wicket. boil! My tipple. MERCI. Here's to us. How's that? Leg before wicket.
Don't stain my brandnew sitinems. Give's a shake of peppe, you there. Don't stain my brandnew sitinems. Give's a shake of peppe, you there.
Catch aholt. Caraway seed to carry away. Twig? Shrieks of silence. Every Catch aholt. Caraway seed to carry away. Twig? Shrieks of silence. Every
cove to his gentry mort. Venus Pandemos. LES PETITES FEMMES. Bold bad cove to his gentry mort. Venus Pandemos. LES PETITES FEMMES. Bold bad
girl from the town of Mullingar. Tell her I was axing at her. Hauding girl from the town of Mullingar. Tell her I was axing at her. Hauding
Sara by the wame. On the road to Malahide. Me? If she who seduced me had Sara by the wame. On the road to Malahide. Me? If she who seduced me had
left but the name. What do you want for ninepence? Machree, macruiskeen. left but the name. What do you want for ninepence? Machree, macruiskeen.
Smutty Moll for a mattress jig. And a pull all together. EX! Smutty Moll for a mattress jig. And a pull all together. EX!
Waiting, guvnor? Most deciduously. Bet your boots on. Stunned like, Waiting, guvnor? Most deciduously. Bet your boots on. Stunned like,
seeing as how no shiners is acoming. Underconstumble? He've got the chink seeing as how no shiners is acoming. Underconstumble? He've got the chink
AD LIB. Seed near free poun on un a spell ago a said war hisn. Us come AD LIB. Seed near free poun on un a spell ago a said war hisn. Us come
right in on your invite, see? Up to you, matey. Out with the oof. Two bar right in on your invite, see? Up to you, matey. Out with the oof. Two bar
and a wing. You larn that go off of they there Frenchy bilks? Won't wash and a wing. You larn that go off of they there Frenchy bilks? Won't wash
here for nuts nohow. Lil chile velly solly. Ise de cutest colour coon here for nuts nohow. Lil chile velly solly. Ise de cutest colour coon
down our side. Gawds teruth, Chawley. We are nae fou. We're nae tha fou. down our side. Gawds teruth, Chawley. We are nae fou. We're nae tha fou.
Au reservoir, mossoo. Tanks you. Au reservoir, mossoo. Tanks you.
'Tis, sure. What say? In the speakeasy. Tight. I shee you, shir. Bantam, 'Tis, sure. What say? In the speakeasy. Tight. I shee you, shir. Bantam,
two days teetee. Bowsing nowt but claretwine. Garn! Have a glint, do. two days teetee. Bowsing nowt but claretwine. Garn! Have a glint, do.
Gum, I'm jiggered. And been to barber he have. Too full for words. With a Gum, I'm jiggered. And been to barber he have. Too full for words. With a
railway bloke. How come you so? Opera he'd like? Rose of Castile. Rows of railway bloke. How come you so? Opera he'd like? Rose of Castile. Rows of
cast. Police! Some H2O for a gent fainted. Look at Bantam's flowers. cast. Police! Some H2O for a gent fainted. Look at Bantam's flowers.
Gemini. He's going to holler. The colleen bawn. My colleen bawn. O, Gemini. He's going to holler. The colleen bawn. My colleen bawn. O,
cheese it! Shut his blurry Dutch oven with a firm hand. Had the winner cheese it! Shut his blurry Dutch oven with a firm hand. Had the winner
today till I tipped him a dead cert. The ruffin cly the nab of Stephen today till I tipped him a dead cert. The ruffin cly the nab of Stephen
Hand as give me the jady coppaleen. He strike a telegramboy paddock wire Hand as give me the jady coppaleen. He strike a telegramboy paddock wire
big bug Bass to the depot. Shove him a joey and grahamise. Mare on form big bug Bass to the depot. Shove him a joey and grahamise. Mare on form
hot order. Guinea to a goosegog. Tell a cram, that. Gospeltrue. Criminal hot order. Guinea to a goosegog. Tell a cram, that. Gospeltrue. Criminal
diversion? I think that yes. Sure thing. Land him in chokeechokee if the diversion? I think that yes. Sure thing. Land him in chokeechokee if the
harman beck copped the game. Madden back Madden's a maddening back. O harman beck copped the game. Madden back Madden's a maddening back. O
lust our refuge and our strength. Decamping. Must you go? Off to mammy. lust our refuge and our strength. Decamping. Must you go? Off to mammy.
Stand by. Hide my blushes someone. All in if he spots me. Come ahome, our Stand by. Hide my blushes someone. All in if he spots me. Come ahome, our
Bantam. Horryvar, mong vioo. Dinna forget the cowslips for hersel. Bantam. Horryvar, mong vioo. Dinna forget the cowslips for hersel.
Cornfide. Wha gev ye thon colt? Pal to pal. Jannock. Of John Thomas, her Cornfide. Wha gev ye thon colt? Pal to pal. Jannock. Of John Thomas, her
spouse. No fake, old man Leo. S'elp me, honest injun. Shiver my timbers spouse. No fake, old man Leo. S'elp me, honest injun. Shiver my timbers
if I had. There's a great big holy friar. Vyfor you no me tell? Vel, I if I had. There's a great big holy friar. Vyfor you no me tell? Vel, I
ses, if that aint a sheeny nachez, vel, I vil get misha mishinnah. ses, if that aint a sheeny nachez, vel, I vil get misha mishinnah.
Through yerd our lord, Amen. Through yerd our lord, Amen.
You move a motion? Steve boy, you're going it some. More bluggy You move a motion? Steve boy, you're going it some. More bluggy
drunkables? Will immensely splendiferous stander permit one stooder of drunkables? Will immensely splendiferous stander permit one stooder of
most extreme poverty and one largesize grandacious thirst to terminate most extreme poverty and one largesize grandacious thirst to terminate
one expensive inaugurated libation? Give's a breather. Landlord, one expensive inaugurated libation? Give's a breather. Landlord,
landlord, have you good wine, staboo? Hoots, mon, a wee drap to pree. Cut landlord, have you good wine, staboo? Hoots, mon, a wee drap to pree. Cut
and come again. Right. Boniface! Absinthe the lot. NOS OMNES BIBERIMUS and come again. Right. Boniface! Absinthe the lot. NOS OMNES BIBERIMUS
VIRIDUM TOXICUM DIABOLUS CAPIAT POSTERIORIA NOSTRIA. Closingtime, gents. VIRIDUM TOXICUM DIABOLUS CAPIAT POSTERIORIA NOSTRIA. Closingtime, gents.
Eh? Rome boose for the Bloom toff. I hear you say onions? Bloo? Cadges Eh? Rome boose for the Bloom toff. I hear you say onions? Bloo? Cadges
ads. Photo's papli, by all that's gorgeous. Play low, pardner. Slide. ads. Photo's papli, by all that's gorgeous. Play low, pardner. Slide.
BONSOIR LA COMPAGNIE. And snares of the poxfiend. Where's the buck and BONSOIR LA COMPAGNIE. And snares of the poxfiend. Where's the buck and
Namby Amby? Skunked? Leg bail. Aweel, ye maun e'en gang yer gates. Namby Amby? Skunked? Leg bail. Aweel, ye maun e'en gang yer gates.
Checkmate. King to tower. Kind Kristyann wil yu help yung man hoose frend Checkmate. King to tower. Kind Kristyann wil yu help yung man hoose frend
tuk bungellow kee tu find plais whear tu lay crown of his hed 2 night. tuk bungellow kee tu find plais whear tu lay crown of his hed 2 night.
Crickey, I'm about sprung. Tarnally dog gone my shins if this beent the Crickey, I'm about sprung. Tarnally dog gone my shins if this beent the
bestest puttiest longbreak yet. Item, curate, couple of cookies for this bestest puttiest longbreak yet. Item, curate, couple of cookies for this
child. Cot's plood and prandypalls, none! Not a pite of sheeses? Thrust child. Cot's plood and prandypalls, none! Not a pite of sheeses? Thrust
syphilis down to hell and with him those other licensed spirits. Time, syphilis down to hell and with him those other licensed spirits. Time,
gents! Who wander through the world. Health all! A LA VOTRE! gents! Who wander through the world. Health all! A LA VOTRE!
Golly, whatten tunket's yon guy in the mackintosh? Dusty Rhodes. Peep at Golly, whatten tunket's yon guy in the mackintosh? Dusty Rhodes. Peep at
his wearables. By mighty! What's he got? Jubilee mutton. Bovril, by his wearables. By mighty! What's he got? Jubilee mutton. Bovril, by
James. Wants it real bad. D'ye ken bare socks? Seedy cuss in the James. Wants it real bad. D'ye ken bare socks? Seedy cuss in the
Richmond? Rawthere! Thought he had a deposit of lead in his penis. Richmond? Rawthere! Thought he had a deposit of lead in his penis.
Trumpery insanity. Bartle the Bread we calls him. That, sir, was once a Trumpery insanity. Bartle the Bread we calls him. That, sir, was once a
prosperous cit. Man all tattered and torn that married a maiden all prosperous cit. Man all tattered and torn that married a maiden all
forlorn. Slung her hook, she did. Here see lost love. Walking Mackintosh forlorn. Slung her hook, she did. Here see lost love. Walking Mackintosh
of lonely canyon. Tuck and turn in. Schedule time. Nix for the hornies. of lonely canyon. Tuck and turn in. Schedule time. Nix for the hornies.
Pardon? Seen him today at a runefal? Chum o' yourn passed in his checks? Pardon? Seen him today at a runefal? Chum o' yourn passed in his checks?
Ludamassy! Pore piccaninnies! Thou'll no be telling me thot, Pold veg! Ludamassy! Pore piccaninnies! Thou'll no be telling me thot, Pold veg!
Did ums blubble bigsplash crytears cos fren Padney was took off in black Did ums blubble bigsplash crytears cos fren Padney was took off in black
bag? Of all de darkies Massa Pat was verra best. I never see the like bag? Of all de darkies Massa Pat was verra best. I never see the like
since I was born. TIENS, TIENS, but it is well sad, that, my faith, yes. since I was born. TIENS, TIENS, but it is well sad, that, my faith, yes.
O, get, rev on a gradient one in nine. Live axle drives are souped. Lay O, get, rev on a gradient one in nine. Live axle drives are souped. Lay
you two to one Jenatzy licks him ruddy well hollow. Jappies? High angle you two to one Jenatzy licks him ruddy well hollow. Jappies? High angle
fire, inyah! Sunk by war specials. Be worse for him, says he, nor any fire, inyah! Sunk by war specials. Be worse for him, says he, nor any
Rooshian. Time all. There's eleven of them. Get ye gone. Forward, woozy Rooshian. Time all. There's eleven of them. Get ye gone. Forward, woozy
wobblers! Night. Night. May Allah the Excellent One your soul this night wobblers! Night. Night. May Allah the Excellent One your soul this night
ever tremendously conserve. ever tremendously conserve.
Your attention! We're nae tha fou. The Leith police dismisseth us. The Your attention! We're nae tha fou. The Leith police dismisseth us. The
least tholice. Ware hawks for the chap puking. Unwell in his abominable least tholice. Ware hawks for the chap puking. Unwell in his abominable
regions. Yooka. Night. Mona, my true love. Yook. Mona, my own love. Ook. regions. Yooka. Night. Mona, my true love. Yook. Mona, my own love. Ook.
Hark! Shut your obstropolos. Pflaap! Pflaap! Blaze on. There she goes. Hark! Shut your obstropolos. Pflaap! Pflaap! Blaze on. There she goes.
Brigade! Bout ship. Mount street way. Cut up! Pflaap! Tally ho. You not Brigade! Bout ship. Mount street way. Cut up! Pflaap! Tally ho. You not
come? Run, skelter, race. Pflaaaap! come? Run, skelter, race. Pflaaaap!
Lynch! Hey? Sign on long o' me. Denzille lane this way. Change here for Lynch! Hey? Sign on long o' me. Denzille lane this way. Change here for
Bawdyhouse. We two, she said, will seek the kips where shady Mary is. Bawdyhouse. We two, she said, will seek the kips where shady Mary is.
Righto, any old time. LAETABUNTUR IN CUBILIBUS SUIS. You coming long? Righto, any old time. LAETABUNTUR IN CUBILIBUS SUIS. You coming long?
Whisper, who the sooty hell's the johnny in the black duds? Hush! Sinned Whisper, who the sooty hell's the johnny in the black duds? Hush! Sinned
against the light and even now that day is at hand when he shall come to against the light and even now that day is at hand when he shall come to
judge the world by fire. Pflaap! UT IMPLERENTUR SCRIPTURAE. Strike up a judge the world by fire. Pflaap! UT IMPLERENTUR SCRIPTURAE. Strike up a
ballad. Then outspake medical Dick to his comrade medical Davy. ballad. Then outspake medical Dick to his comrade medical Davy.
Christicle, who's this excrement yellow gospeller on the Merrion hall? Christicle, who's this excrement yellow gospeller on the Merrion hall?
Elijah is coming! Washed in the blood of the Lamb. Come on you Elijah is coming! Washed in the blood of the Lamb. Come on you
winefizzling, ginsizzling, booseguzzling existences! Come on, you dog- winefizzling, ginsizzling, booseguzzling existences! Come on, you dog-
gone, bullnecked, beetlebrowed, hogjowled, peanutbrained, weaseleyed gone, bullnecked, beetlebrowed, hogjowled, peanutbrained, weaseleyed
fourflushers, false alarms and excess baggage! Come on, you triple fourflushers, false alarms and excess baggage! Come on, you triple
extract of infamy! Alexander J Christ Dowie, that's my name, that's extract of infamy! Alexander J Christ Dowie, that's my name, that's
yanked to glory most half this planet from Frisco beach to Vladivostok. yanked to glory most half this planet from Frisco beach to Vladivostok.
The Deity aint no nickel dime bumshow. I put it to you that He's on the The Deity aint no nickel dime bumshow. I put it to you that He's on the
square and a corking fine business proposition. He's the grandest thing square and a corking fine business proposition. He's the grandest thing
yet and don't you forget it. Shout salvation in King Jesus. You'll need yet and don't you forget it. Shout salvation in King Jesus. You'll need
to rise precious early you sinner there, if you want to diddle the to rise precious early you sinner there, if you want to diddle the
Almighty God. Pflaaaap! Not half. He's got a coughmixture with a punch in Almighty God. Pflaaaap! Not half. He's got a coughmixture with a punch in
it for you, my friend, in his back pocket. Just you try it on. it for you, my friend, in his back pocket. Just you try it on.
    * * * * * * *     * * * * * * *
THE MABBOT STREET ENTRANCE OF NIGHTTOWN, BEFORE WHICH STRETCHES AN THE MABBOT STREET ENTRANCE OF NIGHTTOWN, BEFORE WHICH STRETCHES AN
UNCOBBLED TRAMSIDING SET WITH SKELETON TRACKS, RED AND GREEN WILL-O'-THE- UNCOBBLED TRAMSIDING SET WITH SKELETON TRACKS, RED AND GREEN WILL-O'-THE-
WISPS AND DANGER SIGNALS. ROWS OF GRIMY HOUSES WITH GAPING DOORS. RARE WISPS AND DANGER SIGNALS. ROWS OF GRIMY HOUSES WITH GAPING DOORS. RARE
LAMPS WITH FAINT RAINBOW FINS. ROUND RABAIOTTI'S HALTED ICE GONDOLA LAMPS WITH FAINT RAINBOW FINS. ROUND RABAIOTTI'S HALTED ICE GONDOLA
STUNTED MEN AND WOMEN SQUABBLE. THEY GRAB WAFERS BETWEEN WHICH ARE WEDGED STUNTED MEN AND WOMEN SQUABBLE. THEY GRAB WAFERS BETWEEN WHICH ARE WEDGED
LUMPS OF CORAL AND COPPER SNOW. SUCKING, THEY SCATTER SLOWLY. CHILDREN. LUMPS OF CORAL AND COPPER SNOW. SUCKING, THEY SCATTER SLOWLY. CHILDREN.
THE SWANCOMB OF THE GONDOLA, HIGHREARED, FORGES ON THROUGH THE MURK, THE SWANCOMB OF THE GONDOLA, HIGHREARED, FORGES ON THROUGH THE MURK,
WHITE AND BLUE UNDER A LIGHTHOUSE. WHISTLES CALL AND ANSWER. WHITE AND BLUE UNDER A LIGHTHOUSE. WHISTLES CALL AND ANSWER.
THE CALLS: Wait, my love, and I'll be with you. THE CALLS: Wait, my love, and I'll be with you.
THE ANSWERS: Round behind the stable. THE ANSWERS: Round behind the stable.
(A DEAFMUTE IDIOT WITH GOGGLE EYES, HIS SHAPELESS MOUTH DRIBBLING, JERKS (A DEAFMUTE IDIOT WITH GOGGLE EYES, HIS SHAPELESS MOUTH DRIBBLING, JERKS
PAST, SHAKEN IN SAINT VITUS' DANCE. A CHAIN OF CHILDREN 'S HANDS PAST, SHAKEN IN SAINT VITUS' DANCE. A CHAIN OF CHILDREN 'S HANDS
IMPRISONS HIM.) IMPRISONS HIM.)
THE CHILDREN: Kithogue! Salute! THE CHILDREN: Kithogue! Salute!
THE IDIOT: (LIFTS A PALSIED LEFT ARM AND GURGLES) Grhahute! THE IDIOT: (LIFTS A PALSIED LEFT ARM AND GURGLES) Grhahute!
THE CHILDREN: Where's the great light? THE CHILDREN: Where's the great light?
THE IDIOT: (GOBBING) Ghaghahest. THE IDIOT: (GOBBING) Ghaghahest.
(THEY RELEASE HIM. HE JERKS ON. A PIGMY WOMAN SWINGS ON A ROPE SLUNG (THEY RELEASE HIM. HE JERKS ON. A PIGMY WOMAN SWINGS ON A ROPE SLUNG
BETWEEN TWO RAILINGS, COUNTING. A FORM SPRAWLED AGAINST A DUSTBIN AND BETWEEN TWO RAILINGS, COUNTING. A FORM SPRAWLED AGAINST A DUSTBIN AND
MUFFLED BY ITS ARM AND HAT SNORES, GROANS, GRINDING GROWLING TEETH, AND MUFFLED BY ITS ARM AND HAT SNORES, GROANS, GRINDING GROWLING TEETH, AND
SNORES AGAIN. ON A STEP A GNOME TOTTING AMONG A RUBBISHTIP CROUCHES TO SNORES AGAIN. ON A STEP A GNOME TOTTING AMONG A RUBBISHTIP CROUCHES TO
SHOULDER A SACK OF RAGS AND BONES. A CRONE STANDING BY WITH A SMOKY SHOULDER A SACK OF RAGS AND BONES. A CRONE STANDING BY WITH A SMOKY
OILLAMP RAMS HER LAST BOTTLE IN THE MAW OF HIS SACK. HE HEAVES HIS BOOTY, OILLAMP RAMS HER LAST BOTTLE IN THE MAW OF HIS SACK. HE HEAVES HIS BOOTY,
TUGS ASKEW HIS PEAKED CAP AND HOBBLES OFF MUTELY. THE CRONE MAKES BACK TUGS ASKEW HIS PEAKED CAP AND HOBBLES OFF MUTELY. THE CRONE MAKES BACK
FOR HER LAIR, SWAYING HER LAMP. A BANDY CHILD, ASQUAT ON THE DOORSTEP FOR HER LAIR, SWAYING HER LAMP. A BANDY CHILD, ASQUAT ON THE DOORSTEP
WITH A PAPER SHUTTLECOCK, CRAWLS SIDLING AFTER HER IN SPURTS, CLUTCHES WITH A PAPER SHUTTLECOCK, CRAWLS SIDLING AFTER HER IN SPURTS, CLUTCHES
HER SKIRT, SCRAMBLES UP. A DRUNKEN NAVVY GRIPS WITH BOTH HANDS THE HER SKIRT, SCRAMBLES UP. A DRUNKEN NAVVY GRIPS WITH BOTH HANDS THE
RAILINGS OF AN AREA, LURCHING HEAVILY. AT A COMER TWO NIGHT WATCH IN RAILINGS OF AN AREA, LURCHING HEAVILY. AT A COMER TWO NIGHT WATCH IN
SHOULDERCAPES, THEIR HANDS UPON THEIR STAFFHOLSTERS, LOOM TALL. A PLATE SHOULDERCAPES, THEIR HANDS UPON THEIR STAFFHOLSTERS, LOOM TALL. A PLATE
CRASHES: A WOMAN SCREAMS: A CHILD WAILS. OATHS OF A MAN ROAR, MUTTER, CRASHES: A WOMAN SCREAMS: A CHILD WAILS. OATHS OF A MAN ROAR, MUTTER,
CEASE. FIGURES WANDER, LURK, PEER FROM WARRENS. IN A ROOM LIT BY A CANDLE CEASE. FIGURES WANDER, LURK, PEER FROM WARRENS. IN A ROOM LIT BY A CANDLE
STUCK IN A BOTTLENECK A SLUT COMBS OUT THE TATTS FROM THE HAIR OF A STUCK IN A BOTTLENECK A SLUT COMBS OUT THE TATTS FROM THE HAIR OF A
SCROFULOUS CHILD. CISSY CAFFREY'S VOICE, STILL YOUNG, SINGS SHRILL FROM A SCROFULOUS CHILD. CISSY CAFFREY'S VOICE, STILL YOUNG, SINGS SHRILL FROM A
LANE.) LANE.)
CISSY CAFFREY: CISSY CAFFREY:
    I GAVE IT TO MOLLY     I GAVE IT TO MOLLY
    BECAUSE SHE WAS JOLLY,     BECAUSE SHE WAS JOLLY,
    THE LEG OF THE DUCK,     THE LEG OF THE DUCK,
    THE LEG OF THE DUCK.     THE LEG OF THE DUCK.
(PRIVATE CARR AND PRIVATE COMPTON, SWAGGERSTICKS TIGHT IN THEIR OXTERS, (PRIVATE CARR AND PRIVATE COMPTON, SWAGGERSTICKS TIGHT IN THEIR OXTERS,
AS THEY MARCH UNSTEADILY RIGHTABOUTFACE AND BURST TOGETHER FROM THEIR AS THEY MARCH UNSTEADILY RIGHTABOUTFACE AND BURST TOGETHER FROM THEIR
MOUTHS A VOLLEYED FART. LAUGHTER OF MEN FROM THE LANE. A HOARSE VIRAGO MOUTHS A VOLLEYED FART. LAUGHTER OF MEN FROM THE LANE. A HOARSE VIRAGO
RETORTS.) RETORTS.)
THE VIRAGO: Signs on you, hairy arse. More power the Cavan girl. THE VIRAGO: Signs on you, hairy arse. More power the Cavan girl.
CISSY CAFFREY: More luck to me. Cavan, Cootehill and Belturbet. (SHE CISSY CAFFREY: More luck to me. Cavan, Cootehill and Belturbet. (SHE
SINGS) SINGS)
    I GAVE IT TO NELLY     I GAVE IT TO NELLY
    TO STICK IN HER BELLY,     TO STICK IN HER BELLY,
    THE LEG OF THE DUCK,     THE LEG OF THE DUCK,
    THE LEG OF THE DUCK.     THE LEG OF THE DUCK.
(PRIVATE CARR AND PRIVATE COMPTON TURN AND COUNTERRETORT, THEIR TUNICS (PRIVATE CARR AND PRIVATE COMPTON TURN AND COUNTERRETORT, THEIR TUNICS
BLOODBRIGHT IN A LAMPGLOW, BLACK SOCKETS OF CAPS ON THEIR BLOND CROPPED BLOODBRIGHT IN A LAMPGLOW, BLACK SOCKETS OF CAPS ON THEIR BLOND CROPPED
POLLS. STEPHEN DEDALUS AND LYNCH PASS THROUGH THE CROWD CLOSE TO THE POLLS. STEPHEN DEDALUS AND LYNCH PASS THROUGH THE CROWD CLOSE TO THE
REDCOATS.) REDCOATS.)
PRIVATE COMPTON: (JERKS HIS FINGER) Way for the parson. PRIVATE COMPTON: (JERKS HIS FINGER) Way for the parson.
PRIVATE CARR: (TURNS AND CALLS) What ho, parson! PRIVATE CARR: (TURNS AND CALLS) What ho, parson!
CISSY CAFFREY: (HER VOICE SOARING HIGHER) CISSY CAFFREY: (HER VOICE SOARING HIGHER)
    SHE HAS IT, SHE GOT IT,     SHE HAS IT, SHE GOT IT,
    WHEREVER SHE PUT IT,     WHEREVER SHE PUT IT,
    THE LEG OF THE DUCK.     THE LEG OF THE DUCK.
(STEPHEN, FLOURISHING THE ASHPLANT IN HIS LEFT HAND, CHANTS WITH JOY THE (STEPHEN, FLOURISHING THE ASHPLANT IN HIS LEFT HAND, CHANTS WITH JOY THE
INTROIT FOR PASCHAL TIME. LYNCH, HIS JOCKEYCAP LOW ON HIS BROW, ATTENDS INTROIT FOR PASCHAL TIME. LYNCH, HIS JOCKEYCAP LOW ON HIS BROW, ATTENDS
HIM, A SNEER OF DISCONTENT WRINKLING HIS FACE.) HIM, A SNEER OF DISCONTENT WRINKLING HIS FACE.)
STEPHEN: VIDI AQUAM EGREDIENTEM DE TEMPLO A LATERE DEXTRO. ALLELUIA. STEPHEN: VIDI AQUAM EGREDIENTEM DE TEMPLO A LATERE DEXTRO. ALLELUIA.
(THE FAMISHED SNAGGLETUSKS OF AN ELDERLY BAWD PROTRUDE FROM A DOORWAY.) (THE FAMISHED SNAGGLETUSKS OF AN ELDERLY BAWD PROTRUDE FROM A DOORWAY.)
THE BAWD: (HER VOICE WHISPERING HUSKILY) Sst! Come here till I tell you. THE BAWD: (HER VOICE WHISPERING HUSKILY) Sst! Come here till I tell you.
Maidenhead inside. Sst! Maidenhead inside. Sst!
STEPHEN: (ALTIUS ALIQUANTULUM) ET OMNES AD QUOS PERVENIT AQUA ISTA. STEPHEN: (ALTIUS ALIQUANTULUM) ET OMNES AD QUOS PERVENIT AQUA ISTA.
THE BAWD: (SPITS IN THEIR TRAIL HER JET OF VENOM) Trinity medicals. THE BAWD: (SPITS IN THEIR TRAIL HER JET OF VENOM) Trinity medicals.
Fallopian tube. All prick and no pence. Fallopian tube. All prick and no pence.
(EDY BOARDMAN, SNIFFLING, CROUCHED WITH BERTHA SUPPLE, DRAWS HER SHAWL (EDY BOARDMAN, SNIFFLING, CROUCHED WITH BERTHA SUPPLE, DRAWS HER SHAWL
ACROSS HER NOSTRILS.) ACROSS HER NOSTRILS.)
EDY BOARDMAN: (BICKERING) And says the one: I seen you up Faithful place EDY BOARDMAN: (BICKERING) And says the one: I seen you up Faithful place
with your squarepusher, the greaser off the railway, in his cometobed with your squarepusher, the greaser off the railway, in his cometobed
hat. Did you, says I. That's not for you to say, says I. You never seen hat. Did you, says I. That's not for you to say, says I. You never seen
me in the mantrap with a married highlander, says I. The likes of her! me in the mantrap with a married highlander, says I. The likes of her!
Stag that one is! Stubborn as a mule! And her walking with two fellows Stag that one is! Stubborn as a mule! And her walking with two fellows
the one time, Kilbride, the enginedriver, and lancecorporal Oliphant. the one time, Kilbride, the enginedriver, and lancecorporal Oliphant.
STEPHEN: (TRIUMPHALITER) SALVI FACTI SUNT. STEPHEN: (TRIUMPHALITER) SALVI FACTI SUNT.
(HE FLOURISHES HIS ASHPLANT, SHIVERING THE LAMP IMAGE, SHATTERING LIGHT (HE FLOURISHES HIS ASHPLANT, SHIVERING THE LAMP IMAGE, SHATTERING LIGHT
OVER THE WORLD. A LIVER AND WHITE SPANIEL ON THE PROWL SLINKS AFTER HIM, OVER THE WORLD. A LIVER AND WHITE SPANIEL ON THE PROWL SLINKS AFTER HIM,
GROWLING. LYNCH SCARES IT WITH A KICK.) GROWLING. LYNCH SCARES IT WITH A KICK.)
LYNCH: So that? LYNCH: So that?
STEPHEN: (LOOKS BEHIND) So that gesture, not music not odour, would be a STEPHEN: (LOOKS BEHIND) So that gesture, not music not odour, would be a
universal language, the gift of tongues rendering visible not the lay universal language, the gift of tongues rendering visible not the lay
sense but the first entelechy, the structural rhythm. sense but the first entelechy, the structural rhythm.
LYNCH: Pornosophical philotheology. Metaphysics in Mecklenburgh street! LYNCH: Pornosophical philotheology. Metaphysics in Mecklenburgh street!
STEPHEN: We have shrewridden Shakespeare and henpecked Socrates. Even the STEPHEN: We have shrewridden Shakespeare and henpecked Socrates. Even the
allwisest Stagyrite was bitted, bridled and mounted by a light of love. allwisest Stagyrite was bitted, bridled and mounted by a light of love.
LYNCH: Ba! LYNCH: Ba!
STEPHEN: Anyway, who wants two gestures to illustrate a loaf and a jug? STEPHEN: Anyway, who wants two gestures to illustrate a loaf and a jug?
This movement illustrates the loaf and jug of bread or wine in Omar. Hold This movement illustrates the loaf and jug of bread or wine in Omar. Hold
my stick. my stick.
LYNCH: Damn your yellow stick. Where are we going? LYNCH: Damn your yellow stick. Where are we going?
STEPHEN: Lecherous lynx, TO LA BELLE DAME SANS MERCI, Georgina Johnson, STEPHEN: Lecherous lynx, TO LA BELLE DAME SANS MERCI, Georgina Johnson,
AD DEAM QUI LAETIFICAT IUVENTUTEM MEAM. AD DEAM QUI LAETIFICAT IUVENTUTEM MEAM.
(STEPHEN THRUSTS THE ASHPLANT ON HIM AND SLOWLY HOLDS OUT HIS HANDS, HIS (STEPHEN THRUSTS THE ASHPLANT ON HIM AND SLOWLY HOLDS OUT HIS HANDS, HIS
HEAD GOING BACK TILL BOTH HANDS ARE A SPAN FROM HIS BREAST, DOWN TURNED, HEAD GOING BACK TILL BOTH HANDS ARE A SPAN FROM HIS BREAST, DOWN TURNED,
IN PLANES INTERSECTING, THE FINGERS ABOUT TO PART, THE LEFT BEING IN PLANES INTERSECTING, THE FINGERS ABOUT TO PART, THE LEFT BEING
HIGHER.) HIGHER.)
LYNCH: Which is the jug of bread? It skills not. That or the customhouse. LYNCH: Which is the jug of bread? It skills not. That or the customhouse.
Illustrate thou. Here take your crutch and walk. Illustrate thou. Here take your crutch and walk.
(THEY PASS. TOMMY CAFFREY SCRAMBLES TO A GASLAMP AND, CLASPING, CLIMBS IN (THEY PASS. TOMMY CAFFREY SCRAMBLES TO A GASLAMP AND, CLASPING, CLIMBS IN
SPASMS. FROM THE TOP SPUR HE SLIDES DOWN. JACKY CAFFREY CLASPS TO CLIMB. SPASMS. FROM THE TOP SPUR HE SLIDES DOWN. JACKY CAFFREY CLASPS TO CLIMB.
THE NAVVY LURCHES AGAINST THE LAMP. THE TWINS SCUTTLE OFF IN THE DARK. THE NAVVY LURCHES AGAINST THE LAMP. THE TWINS SCUTTLE OFF IN THE DARK.
THE NAVVY, SWAYING, PRESSES A FOREFINGER AGAINST A WING OF HIS NOSE AND THE NAVVY, SWAYING, PRESSES A FOREFINGER AGAINST A WING OF HIS NOSE AND
EJECTS FROM THE FARTHER NOSTRIL A LONG LIQUID JET OF SNOT. SHOULDERING EJECTS FROM THE FARTHER NOSTRIL A LONG LIQUID JET OF SNOT. SHOULDERING
THE LAMP HE STAGGERS AWAY THROUGH THE CROWD WITH HIS FLARING CRESSET. THE LAMP HE STAGGERS AWAY THROUGH THE CROWD WITH HIS FLARING CRESSET.
SNAKES OF RIVER FOG CREEP SLOWLY. FROM DRAINS, CLEFTS, CESSPOOLS, MIDDENS SNAKES OF RIVER FOG CREEP SLOWLY. FROM DRAINS, CLEFTS, CESSPOOLS, MIDDENS
ARISE ON ALL SIDES STAGNANT FUMES. A GLOW LEAPS IN THE SOUTH BEYOND THE ARISE ON ALL SIDES STAGNANT FUMES. A GLOW LEAPS IN THE SOUTH BEYOND THE
SEAWARD REACHES OF THE RIVER. THE NAVVY, STAGGERING FORWARD, CLEAVES THE SEAWARD REACHES OF THE RIVER. THE NAVVY, STAGGERING FORWARD, CLEAVES THE
CROWD AND LURCHES TOWARDS THE TRAMSIDING ON THE FARTHER SIDE UNDER THE CROWD AND LURCHES TOWARDS THE TRAMSIDING ON THE FARTHER SIDE UNDER THE
RAILWAY BRIDGE BLOOM APPEARS, FLUSHED, PANTING, CRAMMING BREAD AND RAILWAY BRIDGE BLOOM APPEARS, FLUSHED, PANTING, CRAMMING BREAD AND
CHOCOLATE INTO A SIDEPOCKET. FROM GILLEN'S HAIRDRESSER'S WINDOW A CHOCOLATE INTO A SIDEPOCKET. FROM GILLEN'S HAIRDRESSER'S WINDOW A
COMPOSITE PORTRAIT SHOWS HIM GALLANT NELSON'S IMAGE. A CONCAVE MIRROR AT COMPOSITE PORTRAIT SHOWS HIM GALLANT NELSON'S IMAGE. A CONCAVE MIRROR AT
THE SIDE PRESENTS TO HIM LOVELORN LONGLOST LUGUBRU BOOLOOHOOM. GRAVE THE SIDE PRESENTS TO HIM LOVELORN LONGLOST LUGUBRU BOOLOOHOOM. GRAVE
GLADSTONE SEES HIM LEVEL, BLOOM FOR BLOOM. HE PASSES, STRUCK BY THE STARE GLADSTONE SEES HIM LEVEL, BLOOM FOR BLOOM. HE PASSES, STRUCK BY THE STARE
OF TRUCULENT WELLINGTON, BUT IN THE CONVEX MIRROR GRIN UNSTRUCK THE OF TRUCULENT WELLINGTON, BUT IN THE CONVEX MIRROR GRIN UNSTRUCK THE
BONHAM EYES AND FATCHUCK CHEEKCHOPS OF JOLLYPOLDY THE RIXDIX DOLDY. BONHAM EYES AND FATCHUCK CHEEKCHOPS OF JOLLYPOLDY THE RIXDIX DOLDY.
AT ANTONIO PABAIOTTI'S DOOR BLOOM HALTS, SWEATED UNDER THE BRIGHT AT ANTONIO PABAIOTTI'S DOOR BLOOM HALTS, SWEATED UNDER THE BRIGHT
ARCLAMP. HE DISAPPEARS. IN A MOMENT HE REAPPEARS AND HURRIES ON.) ARCLAMP. HE DISAPPEARS. IN A MOMENT HE REAPPEARS AND HURRIES ON.)
BLOOM: Fish and taters. N. g. Ah! BLOOM: Fish and taters. N. g. Ah!
(HE DISAPPEARS INTO OLHAUSEN'S, THE PORKBUTCHER'S, UNDER THE DOWNCOMING (HE DISAPPEARS INTO OLHAUSEN'S, THE PORKBUTCHER'S, UNDER THE DOWNCOMING
ROLLSHUTTER. A FEW MOMENTS LATER HE EMERGES FROM UNDER THE SHUTTER, ROLLSHUTTER. A FEW MOMENTS LATER HE EMERGES FROM UNDER THE SHUTTER,
PUFFING POLDY, BLOWING BLOOHOOM. IN EACH HAND HE HOLDS A PARCEL, ONE PUFFING POLDY, BLOWING BLOOHOOM. IN EACH HAND HE HOLDS A PARCEL, ONE
CONTAINING A LUKEWARM PIG'S CRUBEEN, THE OTHER A COLD SHEEP'S TROTTER, CONTAINING A LUKEWARM PIG'S CRUBEEN, THE OTHER A COLD SHEEP'S TROTTER,
SPRINKLED WITH WHOLEPEPPER. HE GASPS, STANDING UPRIGHT. THEN BENDING TO SPRINKLED WITH WHOLEPEPPER. HE GASPS, STANDING UPRIGHT. THEN BENDING TO
ONE SIDE HE PRESSES A PARCEL AGAINST HIS RIBS AND GROANS.) ONE SIDE HE PRESSES A PARCEL AGAINST HIS RIBS AND GROANS.)
BLOOM: Stitch in my side. Why did I run? BLOOM: Stitch in my side. Why did I run?
(HE TAKES BREATH WITH CARE AND GOES FORWARD SLOWLY TOWARDS THE LAMPSET (HE TAKES BREATH WITH CARE AND GOES FORWARD SLOWLY TOWARDS THE LAMPSET
SIDING. THE GLOW LEAPS AGAIN.) SIDING. THE GLOW LEAPS AGAIN.)
BLOOM: What is that? A flasher? Searchlight. BLOOM: What is that? A flasher? Searchlight.
(HE STANDS AT CORMACK'S CORNER, WATCHING) (HE STANDS AT CORMACK'S CORNER, WATCHING)
BLOOM: AURORA BOREALIS or a steel foundry? Ah, the brigade, of course. BLOOM: AURORA BOREALIS or a steel foundry? Ah, the brigade, of course.
South side anyhow. Big blaze. Might be his house. Beggar's bush. We're South side anyhow. Big blaze. Might be his house. Beggar's bush. We're
safe. (HE HUMS CHEERFULLY) London's burning, London's burning! On fire, safe. (HE HUMS CHEERFULLY) London's burning, London's burning! On fire,
on fire! (HE CATCHES SIGHT OF THE NAVVY LURCHING THROUGH THE CROWD AT THE on fire! (HE CATCHES SIGHT OF THE NAVVY LURCHING THROUGH THE CROWD AT THE
FARTHER SIDE OF TALBOT STREET) I'll miss him. Run. Quick. Better cross FARTHER SIDE OF TALBOT STREET) I'll miss him. Run. Quick. Better cross
here. here.
(HE DARTS TO CROSS THE ROAD. URCHINS SHOUT.) (HE DARTS TO CROSS THE ROAD. URCHINS SHOUT.)
THE URCHINS: Mind out, mister! (TWO CYCLISTS, WITH LIGHTED PAPER LANTERNS THE URCHINS: Mind out, mister! (TWO CYCLISTS, WITH LIGHTED PAPER LANTERNS
ASWING, SWIM BY HIM, GRAZING HIM, THEIR BELLS RATTLING) ASWING, SWIM BY HIM, GRAZING HIM, THEIR BELLS RATTLING)
THE BELLS: Haltyaltyaltyall. THE BELLS: Haltyaltyaltyall.
BLOOM: (HALTS ERECT, STUNG BY A SPASM) Ow! BLOOM: (HALTS ERECT, STUNG BY A SPASM) Ow!
(HE LOOKS ROUND, DARTS FORWARD SUDDENLY. THROUGH RISING FOG A DRAGON (HE LOOKS ROUND, DARTS FORWARD SUDDENLY. THROUGH RISING FOG A DRAGON
SANDSTREWER, TRAVELLING AT CAUTION, SLEWS HEAVILY DOWN UPON HIM, ITS HUGE SANDSTREWER, TRAVELLING AT CAUTION, SLEWS HEAVILY DOWN UPON HIM, ITS HUGE
RED HEADLIGHT WINKING, ITS TROLLEY HISSING ON THE WIRE. THE MOTORMAN RED HEADLIGHT WINKING, ITS TROLLEY HISSING ON THE WIRE. THE MOTORMAN
BANGS HIS FOOTGONG.) BANGS HIS FOOTGONG.)
THE GONG: Bang Bang Bla Bak Blud Bugg Bloo. THE GONG: Bang Bang Bla Bak Blud Bugg Bloo.
(THE BRAKE CRACKS VIOLENTLY. BLOOM, RAISING A POLICEMAN'S WHITEGLOVED (THE BRAKE CRACKS VIOLENTLY. BLOOM, RAISING A POLICEMAN'S WHITEGLOVED
HAND, BLUNDERS STIFFLEGGED OUT OF THE TRACK. THE MOTORMAN, THROWN HAND, BLUNDERS STIFFLEGGED OUT OF THE TRACK. THE MOTORMAN, THROWN
FORWARD, PUGNOSED, ON THE GUIDEWHEEL, YELLS AS HE SLIDES PAST OVER CHAINS FORWARD, PUGNOSED, ON THE GUIDEWHEEL, YELLS AS HE SLIDES PAST OVER CHAINS
AND KEYS.) AND KEYS.)
THE MOTORMAN: Hey, shitbreeches, are you doing the hat trick? THE MOTORMAN: Hey, shitbreeches, are you doing the hat trick?
BLOOM: (BLOOM TRICKLEAPS TO THE CURBSTONE AND HALTS AGAIN. HE BRUSHES A BLOOM: (BLOOM TRICKLEAPS TO THE CURBSTONE AND HALTS AGAIN. HE BRUSHES A
MUDFLAKE FROM HIS CHEEK WITH A PARCELLED HAND.) No thoroughfare. Close MUDFLAKE FROM HIS CHEEK WITH A PARCELLED HAND.) No thoroughfare. Close
shave that but cured the stitch. Must take up Sandow's exercises again. shave that but cured the stitch. Must take up Sandow's exercises again.
On the hands down. Insure against street accident too. The Providential. On the hands down. Insure against street accident too. The Providential.
(HE FEELS HIS TROUSER POCKET) Poor mamma's panacea. Heel easily catch in (HE FEELS HIS TROUSER POCKET) Poor mamma's panacea. Heel easily catch in
track or bootlace in a cog. Day the wheel of the black Maria peeled off track or bootlace in a cog. Day the wheel of the black Maria peeled off
my shoe at Leonard's corner. Third time is the charm. Shoe trick. my shoe at Leonard's corner. Third time is the charm. Shoe trick.
Insolent driver. I ought to report him. Tension makes them nervous. Might Insolent driver. I ought to report him. Tension makes them nervous. Might
be the fellow balked me this morning with that horsey woman. Same style be the fellow balked me this morning with that horsey woman. Same style
of beauty. Quick of him all the same. The stiff walk. True word spoken in of beauty. Quick of him all the same. The stiff walk. True word spoken in
jest. That awful cramp in Lad lane. Something poisonous I ate. Emblem of jest. That awful cramp in Lad lane. Something poisonous I ate. Emblem of
luck. Why? Probably lost cattle. Mark of the beast. (HE CLOSES HIS EYES luck. Why? Probably lost cattle. Mark of the beast. (HE CLOSES HIS EYES
AN INSTANT) Bit light in the head. Monthly or effect of the other. AN INSTANT) Bit light in the head. Monthly or effect of the other.
Brainfogfag. That tired feeling. Too much for me now. Ow! Brainfogfag. That tired feeling. Too much for me now. Ow!
(A SINISTER FIGURE LEANS ON PLAITED LEGS AGAINST O'BEIRNE'S WALL, A (A SINISTER FIGURE LEANS ON PLAITED LEGS AGAINST O'BEIRNE'S WALL, A
VISAGE UNKNOWN, INJECTED WITH DARK MERCURY. FROM UNDER A WIDELEAVED VISAGE UNKNOWN, INJECTED WITH DARK MERCURY. FROM UNDER A WIDELEAVED
SOMBRERO THE FIGURE REGARDS HIM WITH EVIL EYE.) SOMBRERO THE FIGURE REGARDS HIM WITH EVIL EYE.)
BLOOM: BUENAS NOCHES, SENORITA BLANCA. QUE CALLE ES ESTA? BLOOM: BUENAS NOCHES, SENORITA BLANCA. QUE CALLE ES ESTA?
THE FIGURE: (IMPASSIVE, RAISES A SIGNAL ARM) Password. SRAID MABBOT. THE FIGURE: (IMPASSIVE, RAISES A SIGNAL ARM) Password. SRAID MABBOT.
BLOOM: Haha. MERCI. Esperanto. SLAN LEATH. (HE MUTTERS) Gaelic league BLOOM: Haha. MERCI. Esperanto. SLAN LEATH. (HE MUTTERS) Gaelic league
spy, sent by that fireeater. spy, sent by that fireeater.
(HE STEPS FORWARD. A SACKSHOULDERED RAGMAN BARS HIS PATH. HE STEPS LEFT, (HE STEPS FORWARD. A SACKSHOULDERED RAGMAN BARS HIS PATH. HE STEPS LEFT,
RAGSACKMAN LEFT.) RAGSACKMAN LEFT.)
BLOOM: I beg. (HE SWERVES, SIDLES, STEPASIDE, SLIPS PAST AND ON.) BLOOM: I beg. (HE SWERVES, SIDLES, STEPASIDE, SLIPS PAST AND ON.)
BLOOM: Keep to the right, right, right. If there is a signpost planted by BLOOM: Keep to the right, right, right. If there is a signpost planted by
the Touring Club at Stepaside who procured that public boon? I who lost the Touring Club at Stepaside who procured that public boon? I who lost
my way and contributed to the columns of the IRISH CYCLIST the letter my way and contributed to the columns of the IRISH CYCLIST the letter
headed IN DARKEST STEPASIDE. Keep, keep, keep to the right. Rags and headed IN DARKEST STEPASIDE. Keep, keep, keep to the right. Rags and
bones at midnight. A fence more likely. First place murderer makes for. bones at midnight. A fence more likely. First place murderer makes for.
Wash off his sins of the world. Wash off his sins of the world.
(JACKY CAFFREY, HUNTED BY TOMMY CAFFREY, RUNS FULL TILT AGAINST BLOOM.) (JACKY CAFFREY, HUNTED BY TOMMY CAFFREY, RUNS FULL TILT AGAINST BLOOM.)
BLOOM: O BLOOM: O
(SHOCKED, ON WEAK HAMS, HE HALTS. TOMMY AND JACKY VANISH THERE, THERE. (SHOCKED, ON WEAK HAMS, HE HALTS. TOMMY AND JACKY VANISH THERE, THERE.
BLOOM PATS WITH PARCELLED HANDS WATCH FOBPOCKET, BOOKPOCKET, PURSEPOKET, BLOOM PATS WITH PARCELLED HANDS WATCH FOBPOCKET, BOOKPOCKET, PURSEPOKET,
SWEETS OF SIN, POTATO SOAP.) SWEETS OF SIN, POTATO SOAP.)
BLOOM: Beware of pickpockets. Old thieves' dodge. Collide. Then snatch BLOOM: Beware of pickpockets. Old thieves' dodge. Collide. Then snatch
your purse. your purse.
(THE RETRIEVER APPROACHES SNIFFING, NOSE TO THE GROUND. A SPRAWLED FORM (THE RETRIEVER APPROACHES SNIFFING, NOSE TO THE GROUND. A SPRAWLED FORM
SNEEZES. A STOOPED BEARDED FIGURE APPEARS GARBED IN THE LONG CAFTAN OF AN SNEEZES. A STOOPED BEARDED FIGURE APPEARS GARBED IN THE LONG CAFTAN OF AN
ELDER IN ZION AND A SMOKINGCAP WITH MAGENTA TASSELS. HORNED SPECTACLES ELDER IN ZION AND A SMOKINGCAP WITH MAGENTA TASSELS. HORNED SPECTACLES
HANG DOWN AT THE WINGS OF THE NOSE. YELLOW POISON STREAKS ARE ON THE HANG DOWN AT THE WINGS OF THE NOSE. YELLOW POISON STREAKS ARE ON THE
DRAWN FACE.) DRAWN FACE.)
RUDOLPH: Second halfcrown waste money today. I told you not go with RUDOLPH: Second halfcrown waste money today. I told you not go with
drunken goy ever. So you catch no money. drunken goy ever. So you catch no money.
BLOOM: (HIDES THE CRUBEEN AND TROTTER BEHIND HIS BACK AND, CRESTFALLEN, BLOOM: (HIDES THE CRUBEEN AND TROTTER BEHIND HIS BACK AND, CRESTFALLEN,
FEELS WARM AND COLD FEETMEAT) JA, ICH WEISS, PAPACHI. FEELS WARM AND COLD FEETMEAT) JA, ICH WEISS, PAPACHI.
RUDOLPH: What you making down this place? Have you no soul? (WITH FEEBLE RUDOLPH: What you making down this place? Have you no soul? (WITH FEEBLE
VULTURE TALONS HE FEELS THE SILENT FACE OF BLOOM) Are you not my son VULTURE TALONS HE FEELS THE SILENT FACE OF BLOOM) Are you not my son
Leopold, the grandson of Leopold? Are you not my dear son Leopold who Leopold, the grandson of Leopold? Are you not my dear son Leopold who
left the house of his father and left the god of his fathers Abraham and left the house of his father and left the god of his fathers Abraham and
Jacob? Jacob?
BLOOM: (WITH PRECAUTION) I suppose so, father. Mosenthal. All that's left BLOOM: (WITH PRECAUTION) I suppose so, father. Mosenthal. All that's left
of him. of him.
RUDOLPH: (SEVERELY) One night they bring you home drunk as dog after RUDOLPH: (SEVERELY) One night they bring you home drunk as dog after
spend your good money. What you call them running chaps? spend your good money. What you call them running chaps?
BLOOM: (IN YOUTH'S SMART BLUE OXFORD SUIT WITH WHITE VESTSLIPS, BLOOM: (IN YOUTH'S SMART BLUE OXFORD SUIT WITH WHITE VESTSLIPS,
NARROWSHOULDERED, IN BROWN ALPINE HAT, WEARING GENT'S STERLING SILVER NARROWSHOULDERED, IN BROWN ALPINE HAT, WEARING GENT'S STERLING SILVER
WATERBURY KEYLESS WATCH AND DOUBLE CURB ALBERT WITH SEAL ATTACHED, ONE WATERBURY KEYLESS WATCH AND DOUBLE CURB ALBERT WITH SEAL ATTACHED, ONE
SIDE OF HIM COATED WITH STIFFENING MUD) Harriers, father. Only that once. SIDE OF HIM COATED WITH STIFFENING MUD) Harriers, father. Only that once.
RUDOLPH: Once! Mud head to foot. Cut your hand open. Lockjaw. They make RUDOLPH: Once! Mud head to foot. Cut your hand open. Lockjaw. They make
you kaputt, Leopoldleben. You watch them chaps. you kaputt, Leopoldleben. You watch them chaps.
BLOOM: (WEAKLY) They challenged me to a sprint. It was muddy. I slipped. BLOOM: (WEAKLY) They challenged me to a sprint. It was muddy. I slipped.
RUDOLPH: (WITH CONTEMPT) GOIM NACHEZ! Nice spectacles for your poor RUDOLPH: (WITH CONTEMPT) GOIM NACHEZ! Nice spectacles for your poor
mother! mother!
BLOOM: Mamma! BLOOM: Mamma!
ELLEN BLOOM: (IN PANTOMIME DAME'S STRINGED MOBCAP, WIDOW TWANKEY'S ELLEN BLOOM: (IN PANTOMIME DAME'S STRINGED MOBCAP, WIDOW TWANKEY'S
CRINOLINE AND BUSTLE, BLOUSE WITH MUTTONLEG SLEEVES BUTTONED BEHIND, GREY CRINOLINE AND BUSTLE, BLOUSE WITH MUTTONLEG SLEEVES BUTTONED BEHIND, GREY
MITTENS AND CAMEO BROOCH, HER PLAITED HAIR IN A CRISPINE NET, APPEARS MITTENS AND CAMEO BROOCH, HER PLAITED HAIR IN A CRISPINE NET, APPEARS
OVER THE STAIRCASE BANISTERS, A SLANTED CANDLESTICK IN HER HAND, AND OVER THE STAIRCASE BANISTERS, A SLANTED CANDLESTICK IN HER HAND, AND
CRIES OUT IN SHRILL ALARM) O blessed Redeemer, what have they done to CRIES OUT IN SHRILL ALARM) O blessed Redeemer, what have they done to
him! My smelling salts! (SHE HAULS UP A REEF OF SKIRT AND RANSACKS THE him! My smelling salts! (SHE HAULS UP A REEF OF SKIRT AND RANSACKS THE
POUCH OF HER STRIPED BLAY PETTICOAT. A PHIAL, AN AGNUS DEI, A SHRIVELLED POUCH OF HER STRIPED BLAY PETTICOAT. A PHIAL, AN AGNUS DEI, A SHRIVELLED
POTATO AND A CELLULOID DOLL FALL OUT) Sacred Heart of Mary, where were POTATO AND A CELLULOID DOLL FALL OUT) Sacred Heart of Mary, where were
you at all at all? you at all at all?
(BLOOM, MUMBLING, HIS EYES DOWNCAST, BEGINS TO BESTOW HIS PARCELS IN HIS (BLOOM, MUMBLING, HIS EYES DOWNCAST, BEGINS TO BESTOW HIS PARCELS IN HIS
FILLED POCKETS BUT DESISTS, MUTTERING.) FILLED POCKETS BUT DESISTS, MUTTERING.)
A VOICE: (SHARPLY) Poldy! A VOICE: (SHARPLY) Poldy!
BLOOM: Who? (HE DUCKS AND WARDS OFF A BLOW CLUMSILY) At your service. BLOOM: Who? (HE DUCKS AND WARDS OFF A BLOW CLUMSILY) At your service.
(HE LOOKS UP. BESIDE HER MIRAGE OF DATEPALMS A HANDSOME WOMAN IN TURKISH (HE LOOKS UP. BESIDE HER MIRAGE OF DATEPALMS A HANDSOME WOMAN IN TURKISH
COSTUME STANDS BEFORE HIM. OPULENT CURVES FILL OUT HER SCARLET TROUSERS COSTUME STANDS BEFORE HIM. OPULENT CURVES FILL OUT HER SCARLET TROUSERS
AND JACKET, SLASHED WITH GOLD. A WIDE YELLOW CUMMERBUND GIRDLES HER. A AND JACKET, SLASHED WITH GOLD. A WIDE YELLOW CUMMERBUND GIRDLES HER. A
WHITE YASHMAK, VIOLET IN THE NIGHT, COVERS HER FACE, LEAVING FREE ONLY WHITE YASHMAK, VIOLET IN THE NIGHT, COVERS HER FACE, LEAVING FREE ONLY
HER LARGE DARK EYES AND RAVEN HAIR.) HER LARGE DARK EYES AND RAVEN HAIR.)
BLOOM: Molly! BLOOM: Molly!
MARION: Welly? Mrs Marion from this out, my dear man, when you speak to MARION: Welly? Mrs Marion from this out, my dear man, when you speak to
me. (SATIRICALLY) Has poor little hubby cold feet waiting so long? me. (SATIRICALLY) Has poor little hubby cold feet waiting so long?
BLOOM: (SHIFTS FROM FOOT TO FOOT) No, no. Not the least little bit. BLOOM: (SHIFTS FROM FOOT TO FOOT) No, no. Not the least little bit.
(HE BREATHES IN DEEP AGITATION, SWALLOWING GULPS OF AIR, QUESTIONS, (HE BREATHES IN DEEP AGITATION, SWALLOWING GULPS OF AIR, QUESTIONS,
HOPES, CRUBEENS FOR HER SUPPER, THINGS TO TELL HER, EXCUSE, DESIRE, HOPES, CRUBEENS FOR HER SUPPER, THINGS TO TELL HER, EXCUSE, DESIRE,
SPELLBOUND. A COIN GLEAMS ON HER FOREHEAD. ON HER FEET ARE JEWELLED SPELLBOUND. A COIN GLEAMS ON HER FOREHEAD. ON HER FEET ARE JEWELLED
TOERINGS. HER ANKLES ARE LINKED BY A SLENDER FETTERCHAIN. BESIDE HER A TOERINGS. HER ANKLES ARE LINKED BY A SLENDER FETTERCHAIN. BESIDE HER A
CAMEL, HOODED WITH A TURRETING TURBAN, WAITS. A SILK LADDER OF CAMEL, HOODED WITH A TURRETING TURBAN, WAITS. A SILK LADDER OF
INNUMERABLE RUNGS CLIMBS TO HIS BOBBING HOWDAH. HE AMBLES NEAR WITH INNUMERABLE RUNGS CLIMBS TO HIS BOBBING HOWDAH. HE AMBLES NEAR WITH
DISGRUNTLED HINDQUARTERS. FIERCELY SHE SLAPS HIS HAUNCH, HER GOLDCURB DISGRUNTLED HINDQUARTERS. FIERCELY SHE SLAPS HIS HAUNCH, HER GOLDCURB
WRISTBANGLES ANGRILING, SCOLDING HIM IN MOORISH.) WRISTBANGLES ANGRILING, SCOLDING HIM IN MOORISH.)
MARION: Nebrakada! Femininum! MARION: Nebrakada! Femininum!
(THE CAMEL, LIFTING A FORELEG, PLUCKS FROM A TREE A LARGE MANGO FRUIT, (THE CAMEL, LIFTING A FORELEG, PLUCKS FROM A TREE A LARGE MANGO FRUIT,
OFFERS IT TO HIS MISTRESS, BLINKING, IN HIS CLOVEN HOOF, THEN DROOPS HIS OFFERS IT TO HIS MISTRESS, BLINKING, IN HIS CLOVEN HOOF, THEN DROOPS HIS
HEAD AND, GRUNTING, WITH UPLIFTED NECK, FUMBLES TO KNEEL. BLOOM STOOPS HEAD AND, GRUNTING, WITH UPLIFTED NECK, FUMBLES TO KNEEL. BLOOM STOOPS
HIS BACK FOR LEAPFROG.) HIS BACK FOR LEAPFROG.)
BLOOM: I can give you ... I mean as your business menagerer ... Mrs BLOOM: I can give you ... I mean as your business menagerer ... Mrs
Marion ... if you  ... Marion ... if you  ...
MARION: So you notice some change? (HER HANDS PASSING SLOWLY OVER HER MARION: So you notice some change? (HER HANDS PASSING SLOWLY OVER HER
TRINKETED STOMACHER, A SLOW FRIENDLY MOCKERY IN HER EYES) O Poldy, Poldy, TRINKETED STOMACHER, A SLOW FRIENDLY MOCKERY IN HER EYES) O Poldy, Poldy,
you are a poor old stick in the mud! Go and see life. See the wide world. you are a poor old stick in the mud! Go and see life. See the wide world.
BLOOM: I was just going back for that lotion whitewax, orangeflower BLOOM: I was just going back for that lotion whitewax, orangeflower
water. Shop closes early on Thursday. But the first thing in the morning. water. Shop closes early on Thursday. But the first thing in the morning.
(HE PATS DIVERS POCKETS) This moving kidney. Ah! (HE PATS DIVERS POCKETS) This moving kidney. Ah!
(HE POINTS TO THE SOUTH, THEN TO THE EAST. A CAKE OF NEW CLEAN LEMON SOAP (HE POINTS TO THE SOUTH, THEN TO THE EAST. A CAKE OF NEW CLEAN LEMON SOAP
ARISES, DIFFUSING LIGHT AND PERFUME.) ARISES, DIFFUSING LIGHT AND PERFUME.)
THE SOAP: THE SOAP:
    We're a capital couple are Bloom and I.     We're a capital couple are Bloom and I.
    He brightens the earth. I polish the sky.     He brightens the earth. I polish the sky.
(THE FRECKLED FACE OF SWENY, THE DRUGGIST, APPEARS IN THE DISC OF THE (THE FRECKLED FACE OF SWENY, THE DRUGGIST, APPEARS IN THE DISC OF THE
SOAPSUN.) SOAPSUN.)
SWENY: Three and a penny, please. SWENY: Three and a penny, please.
BLOOM: Yes. For my wife. Mrs Marion. Special recipe. BLOOM: Yes. For my wife. Mrs Marion. Special recipe.
MARION: (SOFTLY) Poldy! MARION: (SOFTLY) Poldy!
BLOOM: Yes, ma'am? BLOOM: Yes, ma'am?
MARION: TI TREMA UN POCO IL CUORE? MARION: TI TREMA UN POCO IL CUORE?
(IN DISDAIN SHE SAUNTERS AWAY, PLUMP AS A PAMPERED POUTER PIGEON, HUMMING (IN DISDAIN SHE SAUNTERS AWAY, PLUMP AS A PAMPERED POUTER PIGEON, HUMMING
THE DUET FROM Don Giovanni.) THE DUET FROM Don Giovanni.)
BLOOM: Are you sure about that VOGLIO? I mean the pronunciati ... BLOOM: Are you sure about that VOGLIO? I mean the pronunciati ...
(HE FOLLOWS, FOLLOWED BY THE SNIFFING TERRIER. THE ELDERLY BAWD SEIZES (HE FOLLOWS, FOLLOWED BY THE SNIFFING TERRIER. THE ELDERLY BAWD SEIZES
HIS SLEEVE, THE BRISTLES OF HER CHINMOLE GLITTERING.) HIS SLEEVE, THE BRISTLES OF HER CHINMOLE GLITTERING.)
THE BAWD: Ten shillings a maidenhead. Fresh thing was never touched. THE BAWD: Ten shillings a maidenhead. Fresh thing was never touched.
Fifteen. There's no-one in it only her old father that's dead drunk. Fifteen. There's no-one in it only her old father that's dead drunk.
(SHE POINTS. IN THE GAP OF HER DARK DEN FURTIVE, RAINBEDRAGGLED, BRIDIE (SHE POINTS. IN THE GAP OF HER DARK DEN FURTIVE, RAINBEDRAGGLED, BRIDIE
KELLY STANDS.) KELLY STANDS.)
BRIDIE: Hatch street. Any good in your mind? BRIDIE: Hatch street. Any good in your mind?
(WITH A SQUEAK SHE FLAPS HER BAT SHAWL AND RUNS. A BURLY ROUGH PURSUES (WITH A SQUEAK SHE FLAPS HER BAT SHAWL AND RUNS. A BURLY ROUGH PURSUES
WITH BOOTED STRIDES. HE STUMBLES ON THE STEPS, RECOVERS, PLUNGES INTO WITH BOOTED STRIDES. HE STUMBLES ON THE STEPS, RECOVERS, PLUNGES INTO
GLOOM. WEAK SQUEAKS OF LAUGHTER ARE HEARD, WEAKER.) GLOOM. WEAK SQUEAKS OF LAUGHTER ARE HEARD, WEAKER.)
THE BAWD: (HER WOLFEYES SHINING) He's getting his pleasure. You won't get THE BAWD: (HER WOLFEYES SHINING) He's getting his pleasure. You won't get
a virgin in the flash houses. Ten shillings. Don't be all night before a virgin in the flash houses. Ten shillings. Don't be all night before
the polis in plain clothes sees us. Sixtyseven is a bitch. the polis in plain clothes sees us. Sixtyseven is a bitch.
(LEERING, GERTY MACDOWELL LIMPS FORWARD. SHE DRAWS FROM BEHIND, OGLING, (LEERING, GERTY MACDOWELL LIMPS FORWARD. SHE DRAWS FROM BEHIND, OGLING,
AND SHOWS COYLY HER BLOODIED CLOUT.) AND SHOWS COYLY HER BLOODIED CLOUT.)
GERTY: With all my worldly goods I thee and thou. (SHE MURMURS) You did GERTY: With all my worldly goods I thee and thou. (SHE MURMURS) You did
that. I hate you. that. I hate you.
BLOOM: I? When? You're dreaming. I never saw you. BLOOM: I? When? You're dreaming. I never saw you.
THE BAWD: Leave the gentleman alone, you cheat. Writing the gentleman THE BAWD: Leave the gentleman alone, you cheat. Writing the gentleman
false letters. Streetwalking and soliciting. Better for your mother take false letters. Streetwalking and soliciting. Better for your mother take
the strap to you at the bedpost, hussy like you. the strap to you at the bedpost, hussy like you.
GERTY: (TO BLOOM) When you saw all the secrets of my bottom drawer. (SHE GERTY: (TO BLOOM) When you saw all the secrets of my bottom drawer. (SHE
PAWS HIS SLEEVE, SLOBBERING) Dirty married man! I love you for doing that PAWS HIS SLEEVE, SLOBBERING) Dirty married man! I love you for doing that
to me. to me.
(SHE GLIDES AWAY CROOKEDLY. MRS BREEN IN MAN'S FRIEZE OVERCOAT WITH LOOSE (SHE GLIDES AWAY CROOKEDLY. MRS BREEN IN MAN'S FRIEZE OVERCOAT WITH LOOSE
BELLOWS POCKETS, STANDS IN THE CAUSEWAY, HER ROGUISH EYES WIDEOPEN, BELLOWS POCKETS, STANDS IN THE CAUSEWAY, HER ROGUISH EYES WIDEOPEN,
SMILING IN ALL HER HERBIVOROUS BUCKTEETH.) SMILING IN ALL HER HERBIVOROUS BUCKTEETH.)
MRS BREEN: Mr ... MRS BREEN: Mr ...
BLOOM: (COUGHS GRAVELY) Madam, when we last had this pleasure by letter BLOOM: (COUGHS GRAVELY) Madam, when we last had this pleasure by letter
dated the sixteenth instant ... dated the sixteenth instant ...
MRS BREEN: Mr Bloom! You down here in the haunts of sin! I caught you MRS BREEN: Mr Bloom! You down here in the haunts of sin! I caught you
nicely! Scamp! nicely! Scamp!
BLOOM: (HURRIEDLY) Not so loud my name. Whatever do you think of me? BLOOM: (HURRIEDLY) Not so loud my name. Whatever do you think of me?
Don't give me away. Walls have ears. How do you do? It's ages since I. Don't give me away. Walls have ears. How do you do? It's ages since I.
You're looking splendid. Absolutely it. Seasonable weather we are having You're looking splendid. Absolutely it. Seasonable weather we are having
this time of year. Black refracts heat. Short cut home here. Interesting this time of year. Black refracts heat. Short cut home here. Interesting
quarter. Rescue of fallen women. Magdalen asylum. I am the secretary ... quarter. Rescue of fallen women. Magdalen asylum. I am the secretary ...
MRS BREEN: (HOLDS UP A FINGER) Now, don't tell a big fib! I know somebody MRS BREEN: (HOLDS UP A FINGER) Now, don't tell a big fib! I know somebody
won't like that. O just wait till I see Molly! (SLILY) Account for won't like that. O just wait till I see Molly! (SLILY) Account for
yourself this very sminute or woe betide you! yourself this very sminute or woe betide you!
BLOOM: (LOOKS BEHIND) She often said she'd like to visit. Slumming. The BLOOM: (LOOKS BEHIND) She often said she'd like to visit. Slumming. The
exotic, you see. Negro servants in livery too if she had money. Othello exotic, you see. Negro servants in livery too if she had money. Othello
black brute. Eugene Stratton. Even the bones and cornerman at the black brute. Eugene Stratton. Even the bones and cornerman at the
Livermore christies. Bohee brothers. Sweep for that matter. Livermore christies. Bohee brothers. Sweep for that matter.
(TOM AND SAM BOHEE, COLOURED COONS IN WHITE DUCK SUITS, SCARLET SOCKS, (TOM AND SAM BOHEE, COLOURED COONS IN WHITE DUCK SUITS, SCARLET SOCKS,
UPSTARCHED SAMBO CHOKERS AND LARGE SCARLET ASTERS IN THEIR BUTTONHOLES, UPSTARCHED SAMBO CHOKERS AND LARGE SCARLET ASTERS IN THEIR BUTTONHOLES,
LEAP OUT. EACH HAS HIS BANJO SLUNG. THEIR PALER SMALLER NEGROID HANDS LEAP OUT. EACH HAS HIS BANJO SLUNG. THEIR PALER SMALLER NEGROID HANDS
JINGLE THE TWINGTWANG WIRES. FLASHING WHITE KAFFIR EYES AND TUSKS THEY JINGLE THE TWINGTWANG WIRES. FLASHING WHITE KAFFIR EYES AND TUSKS THEY
RATTLE THROUGH A BREAKDOWN IN CLUMSY CLOGS, TWINGING, SINGING, BACK TO RATTLE THROUGH A BREAKDOWN IN CLUMSY CLOGS, TWINGING, SINGING, BACK TO
BACK, TOE HEEL, HEEL TOE, WITH SMACKFATCLACKING NIGGER LIPS.) BACK, TOE HEEL, HEEL TOE, WITH SMACKFATCLACKING NIGGER LIPS.)
TOM AND SAM: TOM AND SAM:
    There's someone in the house with Dina     There's someone in the house with Dina
    There's someone in the house, I know,     There's someone in the house, I know,
    There's someone in the house with Dina     There's someone in the house with Dina
    Playing on the old banjo.     Playing on the old banjo.
(THEY WHISK BLACK MASKS FROM RAW BABBY FACES: THEN, CHUCKLING, CHORTLING, (THEY WHISK BLACK MASKS FROM RAW BABBY FACES: THEN, CHUCKLING, CHORTLING,
TRUMMING, TWANGING, THEY DIDDLE DIDDLE CAKEWALK DANCE AWAY.) TRUMMING, TWANGING, THEY DIDDLE DIDDLE CAKEWALK DANCE AWAY.)
BLOOM: (WITH A SOUR TENDERISH SMILE) A little frivol, shall we, if you BLOOM: (WITH A SOUR TENDERISH SMILE) A little frivol, shall we, if you
are so inclined? Would you like me perhaps to embrace you just for a are so inclined? Would you like me perhaps to embrace you just for a
fraction of a second? fraction of a second?
MRS BREEN: (SCREAMS GAILY) O, you ruck! You ought to see yourself! MRS BREEN: (SCREAMS GAILY) O, you ruck! You ought to see yourself!
BLOOM: For old sake' sake. I only meant a square party, a mixed marriage BLOOM: For old sake' sake. I only meant a square party, a mixed marriage
mingling of our different little conjugials. You know I had a soft corner mingling of our different little conjugials. You know I had a soft corner
for you. (GLOOMILY) 'Twas I sent you that valentine of the dear gazelle. for you. (GLOOMILY) 'Twas I sent you that valentine of the dear gazelle.
MRS BREEN: Glory Alice, you do look a holy show! Killing simply. (SHE MRS BREEN: Glory Alice, you do look a holy show! Killing simply. (SHE
PUTS OUT HER HAND INQUISITIVELY) What are you hiding behind your back? PUTS OUT HER HAND INQUISITIVELY) What are you hiding behind your back?
Tell us, there's a dear. Tell us, there's a dear.
BLOOM: (SEIZES HER WRIST WITH HIS FREE HAND) Josie Powell that was, BLOOM: (SEIZES HER WRIST WITH HIS FREE HAND) Josie Powell that was,
prettiest deb in Dublin. How time flies by! Do you remember, harking back prettiest deb in Dublin. How time flies by! Do you remember, harking back
in a retrospective arrangement, Old Christmas night, Georgina Simpson's in a retrospective arrangement, Old Christmas night, Georgina Simpson's
housewarming while they were playing the Irving Bishop game, finding the housewarming while they were playing the Irving Bishop game, finding the
pin blindfold and thoughtreading? Subject, what is in this snuffbox? pin blindfold and thoughtreading? Subject, what is in this snuffbox?
MRS BREEN: You were the lion of the night with your seriocomic recitation MRS BREEN: You were the lion of the night with your seriocomic recitation
and you looked the part. You were always a favourite with the ladies. and you looked the part. You were always a favourite with the ladies.
BLOOM: (SQUIRE OF DAMES, IN DINNER JACKET WITH WATEREDSILK FACINGS, BLUE BLOOM: (SQUIRE OF DAMES, IN DINNER JACKET WITH WATEREDSILK FACINGS, BLUE
MASONIC BADGE IN HIS BUTTONHOLE, BLACK BOW AND MOTHER-OF-PEARL STUDS, A MASONIC BADGE IN HIS BUTTONHOLE, BLACK BOW AND MOTHER-OF-PEARL STUDS, A
PRISMATIC CHAMPAGNE GLASS TILTED IN HIS HAND) Ladies and gentlemen, I PRISMATIC CHAMPAGNE GLASS TILTED IN HIS HAND) Ladies and gentlemen, I
give you Ireland, home and beauty. give you Ireland, home and beauty.
MRS BREEN: The dear dead days beyond recall. Love's old sweet song. MRS BREEN: The dear dead days beyond recall. Love's old sweet song.
BLOOM: (MEANINGFULLY DROPPING HIS VOICE) I confess I'm teapot with BLOOM: (MEANINGFULLY DROPPING HIS VOICE) I confess I'm teapot with
curiosity to find out whether some person's something is a little teapot curiosity to find out whether some person's something is a little teapot
at present. at present.
MRS BREEN: (GUSHINGLY) Tremendously teapot! London's teapot and I'm MRS BREEN: (GUSHINGLY) Tremendously teapot! London's teapot and I'm
simply teapot all over me! (SHE RUBS SIDES WITH HIM) After the parlour simply teapot all over me! (SHE RUBS SIDES WITH HIM) After the parlour
mystery games and the crackers from the tree we sat on the staircase mystery games and the crackers from the tree we sat on the staircase
ottoman. Under the mistletoe. Two is company. ottoman. Under the mistletoe. Two is company.
BLOOM: (WEARING A PURPLE NAPOLEON HAT WITH AN AMBER HALFMOON, HIS FINGERS BLOOM: (WEARING A PURPLE NAPOLEON HAT WITH AN AMBER HALFMOON, HIS FINGERS
AND THUMB PASSING SLOWLY DOWN TO HER SOFT MOIST MEATY PALM WHICH SHE AND THUMB PASSING SLOWLY DOWN TO HER SOFT MOIST MEATY PALM WHICH SHE
SURRENDERS GENTLY) The witching hour of night. I took the splinter out of SURRENDERS GENTLY) The witching hour of night. I took the splinter out of
this hand, carefully, slowly. (TENDERLY, AS HE SLIPS ON HER FINGER A RUBY this hand, carefully, slowly. (TENDERLY, AS HE SLIPS ON HER FINGER A RUBY
RING) LA CI DAREM LA MANO. RING) LA CI DAREM LA MANO.
MRS BREEN: (IN A ONEPIECE EVENING FROCK EXECUTED IN MOONLIGHT BLUE, A MRS BREEN: (IN A ONEPIECE EVENING FROCK EXECUTED IN MOONLIGHT BLUE, A
TINSEL SYLPH'S DIADEM ON HER BROW WITH HER DANCECARD FALLEN BESIDE HER TINSEL SYLPH'S DIADEM ON HER BROW WITH HER DANCECARD FALLEN BESIDE HER
MOONBLUE SATIN SLIPPER, CURVES HER PALM SOFTLY, BREATHING QUICKLY) VOGLIO MOONBLUE SATIN SLIPPER, CURVES HER PALM SOFTLY, BREATHING QUICKLY) VOGLIO
E NON. You're hot! You're scalding! The left hand nearest the heart. E NON. You're hot! You're scalding! The left hand nearest the heart.
BLOOM: When you made your present choice they said it was beauty and the BLOOM: When you made your present choice they said it was beauty and the
beast. I can never forgive you for that. (HIS CLENCHED FIST AT HIS BROW) beast. I can never forgive you for that. (HIS CLENCHED FIST AT HIS BROW)
Think what it means. All you meant to me then. (HOARSELY) Woman, it's Think what it means. All you meant to me then. (HOARSELY) Woman, it's
breaking me! breaking me!
(DENIS BREEN, WHITETALLHATTED, WITH WISDOM HELY'S SANDWICH- BOARDS, (DENIS BREEN, WHITETALLHATTED, WITH WISDOM HELY'S SANDWICH- BOARDS,
SHUFFLES PAST THEM IN CARPET SLIPPERS, HIS DULL BEARD THRUST OUT, SHUFFLES PAST THEM IN CARPET SLIPPERS, HIS DULL BEARD THRUST OUT,
MUTTERING TO RIGHT AND LEFT. LITTLE ALF BERGAN, CLOAKED IN THE PALL OF MUTTERING TO RIGHT AND LEFT. LITTLE ALF BERGAN, CLOAKED IN THE PALL OF
THE ACE OF SPADES, DOGS HIM TO LEFT AND RIGHT, DOUBLED IN LAUGHTER.) THE ACE OF SPADES, DOGS HIM TO LEFT AND RIGHT, DOUBLED IN LAUGHTER.)
ALF BERGAN: (POINTS JEERING AT THE SANDWICHBOARDS) U. p: Up. ALF BERGAN: (POINTS JEERING AT THE SANDWICHBOARDS) U. p: Up.
MRS BREEN: (TO BLOOM) High jinks below stairs. (SHE GIVES HIM THE GLAD MRS BREEN: (TO BLOOM) High jinks below stairs. (SHE GIVES HIM THE GLAD
EYE) Why didn't you kiss the spot to make it well? You wanted to. EYE) Why didn't you kiss the spot to make it well? You wanted to.
BLOOM: (SHOCKED) Molly's best friend! Could you? BLOOM: (SHOCKED) Molly's best friend! Could you?
MRS BREEN: (HER PULPY TONGUE BETWEEN HER LIPS, OFFERS A PIGEON KISS) MRS BREEN: (HER PULPY TONGUE BETWEEN HER LIPS, OFFERS A PIGEON KISS)
Hnhn. The answer is a lemon. Have you a little present for me there? Hnhn. The answer is a lemon. Have you a little present for me there?
BLOOM: (OFFHANDEDLY) Kosher. A snack for supper. The home without potted BLOOM: (OFFHANDEDLY) Kosher. A snack for supper. The home without potted
meat is incomplete. I was at LEAH. Mrs Bandmann Palmer. Trenchant meat is incomplete. I was at LEAH. Mrs Bandmann Palmer. Trenchant
exponent of Shakespeare. Unfortunately threw away the programme. Rattling exponent of Shakespeare. Unfortunately threw away the programme. Rattling
good place round there for pigs' feet. Feel. good place round there for pigs' feet. Feel.
(RICHIE GOULDING, THREE LADIES' HATS PINNED ON HIS HEAD, APPEARS WEIGHTED (RICHIE GOULDING, THREE LADIES' HATS PINNED ON HIS HEAD, APPEARS WEIGHTED
TO ONE SIDE BY THE BLACK LEGAL BAG OF COLLIS AND WARD ON WHICH A SKULL TO ONE SIDE BY THE BLACK LEGAL BAG OF COLLIS AND WARD ON WHICH A SKULL
AND CROSSBONES ARE PAINTED IN WHITE LIMEWASH. HE OPENS IT AND SHOWS IT AND CROSSBONES ARE PAINTED IN WHITE LIMEWASH. HE OPENS IT AND SHOWS IT
FULL OF POLONIES, KIPPERED HERRINGS, FINDON HADDIES AND TIGHTPACKED FULL OF POLONIES, KIPPERED HERRINGS, FINDON HADDIES AND TIGHTPACKED
PILLS.) PILLS.)
RICHIE: Best value in Dub. RICHIE: Best value in Dub.
(BALD PAT, BOTHERED BEETLE, STANDS ON THE CURBSTONE, FOLDING HIS NAPKIN, (BALD PAT, BOTHERED BEETLE, STANDS ON THE CURBSTONE, FOLDING HIS NAPKIN,
WAITING TO WAIT.) WAITING TO WAIT.)
PAT: (ADVANCES WITH A TILTED DISH OF SPILLSPILLING GRAVY) Steak and PAT: (ADVANCES WITH A TILTED DISH OF SPILLSPILLING GRAVY) Steak and
kidney. Bottle of lager. Hee hee hee. Wait till I wait. kidney. Bottle of lager. Hee hee hee. Wait till I wait.
RICHIE: Goodgod. Inev erate inall ... RICHIE: Goodgod. Inev erate inall ...
(WITH HANGING HEAD HE MARCHES DOGGEDLY FORWARD. THE NAVVY, LURCHING BY, (WITH HANGING HEAD HE MARCHES DOGGEDLY FORWARD. THE NAVVY, LURCHING BY,
GORES HIM WITH HIS FLAMING PRONGHORN.) GORES HIM WITH HIS FLAMING PRONGHORN.)
RICHIE: (WITH A CRY OF PAIN, HIS HAND TO HIS BACK) Ah! Bright's! Lights! RICHIE: (WITH A CRY OF PAIN, HIS HAND TO HIS BACK) Ah! Bright's! Lights!
BLOOM: (POINTS TO THE NAVVY) A spy. Don't attract attention. I hate BLOOM: (POINTS TO THE NAVVY) A spy. Don't attract attention. I hate
stupid crowds. I am not on pleasure bent. I am in a grave predicament. stupid crowds. I am not on pleasure bent. I am in a grave predicament.
MRS BREEN: Humbugging and deluthering as per usual with your cock and MRS BREEN: Humbugging and deluthering as per usual with your cock and
bull story. bull story.
BLOOM: I want to tell you a little secret about how I came to be here. BLOOM: I want to tell you a little secret about how I came to be here.
But you must never tell. Not even Molly. I have a most particular reason. But you must never tell. Not even Molly. I have a most particular reason.
MRS BREEN: (ALL AGOG) O, not for worlds. MRS BREEN: (ALL AGOG) O, not for worlds.
BLOOM: Let's walk on. Shall us? BLOOM: Let's walk on. Shall us?
MRS BREEN: Let's. MRS BREEN: Let's.
(THE BAWD MAKES AN UNHEEDED SIGN. BLOOM WALKS ON WITH MRS BREEN. THE (THE BAWD MAKES AN UNHEEDED SIGN. BLOOM WALKS ON WITH MRS BREEN. THE
TERRIER FOLLOWS, WHINING PITEOUSLY, WAGGING HIS TAIL.) TERRIER FOLLOWS, WHINING PITEOUSLY, WAGGING HIS TAIL.)
THE BAWD: Jewman's melt! THE BAWD: Jewman's melt!
BLOOM: (IN AN OATMEAL SPORTING SUIT, A SPRIG OF WOODBINE IN THE LAPEL, BLOOM: (IN AN OATMEAL SPORTING SUIT, A SPRIG OF WOODBINE IN THE LAPEL,
TONY BUFF SHIRT, SHEPHERD'S PLAID SAINT ANDREW'S CROSS SCARFTIE, WHITE TONY BUFF SHIRT, SHEPHERD'S PLAID SAINT ANDREW'S CROSS SCARFTIE, WHITE
SPATS, FAWN DUSTCOAT ON HIS ARM, TAWNY RED BROGUES, FIELDGLASSES IN SPATS, FAWN DUSTCOAT ON HIS ARM, TAWNY RED BROGUES, FIELDGLASSES IN
BANDOLIER AND A GREY BILLYCOCK HAT) Do you remember a long long time, BANDOLIER AND A GREY BILLYCOCK HAT) Do you remember a long long time,
years and years ago, just after Milly, Marionette we called her, was years and years ago, just after Milly, Marionette we called her, was
weaned when we all went together to Fairyhouse races, was it? weaned when we all went together to Fairyhouse races, was it?
MRS BREEN: (IN SMART SAXE TAILORMADE, WHITE VELOURS HAT AND SPIDER VEIL) MRS BREEN: (IN SMART SAXE TAILORMADE, WHITE VELOURS HAT AND SPIDER VEIL)
Leopardstown. Leopardstown.
BLOOM: I mean, Leopardstown. And Molly won seven shillings on a three BLOOM: I mean, Leopardstown. And Molly won seven shillings on a three
year old named Nevertell and coming home along by Foxrock in that old year old named Nevertell and coming home along by Foxrock in that old
fiveseater shanderadan of a waggonette you were in your heyday then and fiveseater shanderadan of a waggonette you were in your heyday then and
you had on that new hat of white velours with a surround of molefur that you had on that new hat of white velours with a surround of molefur that
Mrs Hayes advised you to buy because it was marked down to nineteen and Mrs Hayes advised you to buy because it was marked down to nineteen and
eleven, a bit of wire and an old rag of velveteen, and I'll lay you what eleven, a bit of wire and an old rag of velveteen, and I'll lay you what
you like she did it on purpose ... you like she did it on purpose ...
MRS BREEN: She did, of course, the cat! Don't tell me! Nice adviser! MRS BREEN: She did, of course, the cat! Don't tell me! Nice adviser!
BLOOM: Because it didn't suit you one quarter as well as the other ducky BLOOM: Because it didn't suit you one quarter as well as the other ducky
little tammy toque with the bird of paradise wing in it that I admired on little tammy toque with the bird of paradise wing in it that I admired on
you and you honestly looked just too fetching in it though it was a pity you and you honestly looked just too fetching in it though it was a pity
to kill it, you cruel naughty creature, little mite of a thing with a to kill it, you cruel naughty creature, little mite of a thing with a
heart the size of a fullstop. heart the size of a fullstop.
MRS BREEN: (SQUEEZES HIS ARM, SIMPERS) Naughty cruel I was! MRS BREEN: (SQUEEZES HIS ARM, SIMPERS) Naughty cruel I was!
BLOOM: (LOW, SECRETLY, EVER MORE RAPIDLY) And Molly was eating a sandwich BLOOM: (LOW, SECRETLY, EVER MORE RAPIDLY) And Molly was eating a sandwich
of spiced beef out of Mrs Joe Gallaher's lunch basket. Frankly, though of spiced beef out of Mrs Joe Gallaher's lunch basket. Frankly, though
she had her advisers or admirers, I never cared much for her style. She she had her advisers or admirers, I never cared much for her style. She
was ... was ...
MRS BREEN: Too ... MRS BREEN: Too ...
BLOOM: Yes. And Molly was laughing because Rogers and Maggot O'Reilly BLOOM: Yes. And Molly was laughing because Rogers and Maggot O'Reilly
were mimicking a cock as we passed a farmhouse and Marcus Tertius Moses, were mimicking a cock as we passed a farmhouse and Marcus Tertius Moses,
the tea merchant, drove past us in a gig with his daughter, Dancer Moses the tea merchant, drove past us in a gig with his daughter, Dancer Moses
was her name, and the poodle in her lap bridled up and you asked me if I was her name, and the poodle in her lap bridled up and you asked me if I
ever heard or read or knew or came across ... ever heard or read or knew or came across ...
MRS BREEN: (EAGERLY) Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. MRS BREEN: (EAGERLY) Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
(SHE FADES FROM HIS SIDE. FOLLOWED BY THE WHINING DOG HE WALKS ON TOWARDS (SHE FADES FROM HIS SIDE. FOLLOWED BY THE WHINING DOG HE WALKS ON TOWARDS
HELLSGATES. IN AN ARCHWAY A STANDING WOMAN, BENT FORWARD, HER FEET APART, HELLSGATES. IN AN ARCHWAY A STANDING WOMAN, BENT FORWARD, HER FEET APART,
PISSES COWILY. OUTSIDE A SHUTTERED PUB A BUNCH OF LOITERERS LISTEN TO A PISSES COWILY. OUTSIDE A SHUTTERED PUB A BUNCH OF LOITERERS LISTEN TO A
TALE WHICH THEIR BROKENSNOUTED GAFFER RASPS OUT WITH RAUCOUS HUMOUR. AN TALE WHICH THEIR BROKENSNOUTED GAFFER RASPS OUT WITH RAUCOUS HUMOUR. AN
ARMLESS PAIR OF THEM FLOP WRESTLING, GROWLING, IN MAIMED SODDEN ARMLESS PAIR OF THEM FLOP WRESTLING, GROWLING, IN MAIMED SODDEN
PLAYFIGHT.) PLAYFIGHT.)
THE GAFFER: (CROUCHES, HIS VOICE TWISTED IN HIS SNOUT) And when Cairns THE GAFFER: (CROUCHES, HIS VOICE TWISTED IN HIS SNOUT) And when Cairns
came down from the scaffolding in Beaver street what was he after doing came down from the scaffolding in Beaver street what was he after doing
it into only into the bucket of porter that was there waiting on the it into only into the bucket of porter that was there waiting on the
shavings for Derwan's plasterers. shavings for Derwan's plasterers.
THE LOITERERS: (GUFFAW WITH CLEFT PALATES) O jays! THE LOITERERS: (GUFFAW WITH CLEFT PALATES) O jays!
(THEIR PAINTSPECKLED HATS WAG. SPATTERED WITH SIZE AND LIME OF THEIR (THEIR PAINTSPECKLED HATS WAG. SPATTERED WITH SIZE AND LIME OF THEIR
LODGES THEY FRISK LIMBLESSLY ABOUT HIM.) LODGES THEY FRISK LIMBLESSLY ABOUT HIM.)
BLOOM: Coincidence too. They think it funny. Anything but that. Broad BLOOM: Coincidence too. They think it funny. Anything but that. Broad
daylight. Trying to walk. Lucky no woman. daylight. Trying to walk. Lucky no woman.
THE LOITERERS: Jays, that's a good one. Glauber salts. O jays, into the THE LOITERERS: Jays, that's a good one. Glauber salts. O jays, into the
men's porter. men's porter.
(BLOOM PASSES. CHEAP WHORES, SINGLY, COUPLED, SHAWLED, DISHEVELLED, CALL (BLOOM PASSES. CHEAP WHORES, SINGLY, COUPLED, SHAWLED, DISHEVELLED, CALL
FROM LANES, DOORS, CORNERS.) FROM LANES, DOORS, CORNERS.)
THE WHORES: THE WHORES:
    Are you going far, queer fellow?     Are you going far, queer fellow?
    How's your middle leg?     How's your middle leg?
    Got a match on you?     Got a match on you?
    Eh, come here till I stiffen it for you.     Eh, come here till I stiffen it for you.
(HE PLODGES THROUGH THEIR SUMP TOWARDS THE LIGHTED STREET BEYOND. FROM A (HE PLODGES THROUGH THEIR SUMP TOWARDS THE LIGHTED STREET BEYOND. FROM A
BULGE OF WINDOW CURTAINS A GRAMOPHONE REARS A BATTERED BRAZEN TRUNK. IN BULGE OF WINDOW CURTAINS A GRAMOPHONE REARS A BATTERED BRAZEN TRUNK. IN
THE SHADOW A SHEBEENKEEPER HAGGLES WITH THE NAVVY AND THE TWO REDCOATS.) THE SHADOW A SHEBEENKEEPER HAGGLES WITH THE NAVVY AND THE TWO REDCOATS.)
THE NAVVY: (BELCHING) Where's the bloody house? THE NAVVY: (BELCHING) Where's the bloody house?
THE SHEBEENKEEPER: Purdon street. Shilling a bottle of stout. Respectable THE SHEBEENKEEPER: Purdon street. Shilling a bottle of stout. Respectable
woman. woman.
THE NAVVY: (GRIPPING THE TWO REDCOATS, STAGGERS FORWARD WITH THEM) Come THE NAVVY: (GRIPPING THE TWO REDCOATS, STAGGERS FORWARD WITH THEM) Come
on, you British army! on, you British army!
PRIVATE CARR: (BEHIND HIS BACK) He aint half balmy. PRIVATE CARR: (BEHIND HIS BACK) He aint half balmy.
PRIVATE COMPTON: (LAUGHS) What ho! PRIVATE COMPTON: (LAUGHS) What ho!
PRIVATE CARR: (TO THE NAVVY) Portobello barracks canteen. You ask for PRIVATE CARR: (TO THE NAVVY) Portobello barracks canteen. You ask for
Carr. Just Carr. Carr. Just Carr.
THE NAVVY: (SHOUTS) THE NAVVY: (SHOUTS)
    We are the boys. Of Wexford.     We are the boys. Of Wexford.
PRIVATE COMPTON: Say! What price the sergeantmajor? PRIVATE COMPTON: Say! What price the sergeantmajor?
PRIVATE CARR: Bennett? He's my pal. I love old Bennett. PRIVATE CARR: Bennett? He's my pal. I love old Bennett.
THE NAVVY: (SHOUTS) THE NAVVY: (SHOUTS)
    The galling chain.     The galling chain.
    And free our native land.     And free our native land.
(HE STAGGERS FORWARD, DRAGGING THEM WITH HIM. BLOOM STOPS, AT FAULT. THE (HE STAGGERS FORWARD, DRAGGING THEM WITH HIM. BLOOM STOPS, AT FAULT. THE
DOG APPROACHES, HIS TONGUE OUTLOLLING, PANTING) DOG APPROACHES, HIS TONGUE OUTLOLLING, PANTING)
BLOOM: Wildgoose chase this. Disorderly houses. Lord knows where they are BLOOM: Wildgoose chase this. Disorderly houses. Lord knows where they are
gone. Drunks cover distance double quick. Nice mixup. Scene at Westland gone. Drunks cover distance double quick. Nice mixup. Scene at Westland
row. Then jump in first class with third ticket. Then too far. Train with row. Then jump in first class with third ticket. Then too far. Train with
engine behind. Might have taken me to Malahide or a siding for the night engine behind. Might have taken me to Malahide or a siding for the night
or collision. Second drink does it. Once is a dose. What am I following or collision. Second drink does it. Once is a dose. What am I following
him for? Still, he's the best of that lot. If I hadn't heard about Mrs him for? Still, he's the best of that lot. If I hadn't heard about Mrs
Beaufoy Purefoy I wouldn't have gone and wouldn't have met. Kismet. He'll Beaufoy Purefoy I wouldn't have gone and wouldn't have met. Kismet. He'll
lose that cash. Relieving office here. Good biz for cheapjacks, organs. lose that cash. Relieving office here. Good biz for cheapjacks, organs.
What do ye lack? Soon got, soon gone. Might have lost my life too with What do ye lack? Soon got, soon gone. Might have lost my life too with
that mangongwheeltracktrolleyglarejuggernaut only for presence of mind. that mangongwheeltracktrolleyglarejuggernaut only for presence of mind.
Can't always save you, though. If I had passed Truelock's window that day Can't always save you, though. If I had passed Truelock's window that day
two minutes later would have been shot. Absence of body. Still if bullet two minutes later would have been shot. Absence of body. Still if bullet
only went through my coat get damages for shock, five hundred pounds. only went through my coat get damages for shock, five hundred pounds.
What was he? Kildare street club toff. God help his gamekeeper. What was he? Kildare street club toff. God help his gamekeeper.
(HE GAZES AHEAD, READING ON THE WALL A SCRAWLED CHALK LEGEND Wet Dream (HE GAZES AHEAD, READING ON THE WALL A SCRAWLED CHALK LEGEND Wet Dream
AND A PHALLIC DESIGN.) Odd! Molly drawing on the frosted carriagepane at AND A PHALLIC DESIGN.) Odd! Molly drawing on the frosted carriagepane at
Kingstown. What's that like? (GAUDY DOLLWOMEN LOLL IN THE LIGHTED Kingstown. What's that like? (GAUDY DOLLWOMEN LOLL IN THE LIGHTED
DOORWAYS, IN WINDOW EMBRASURES, SMOKING BIRDSEYE CIGARETTES. THE ODOUR OF DOORWAYS, IN WINDOW EMBRASURES, SMOKING BIRDSEYE CIGARETTES. THE ODOUR OF
THE SICKSWEET WEED FLOATS TOWARDS HIM IN SLOW ROUND OVALLING WREATHS.) THE SICKSWEET WEED FLOATS TOWARDS HIM IN SLOW ROUND OVALLING WREATHS.)
THE WREATHS: Sweet are the sweets. Sweets of sin. THE WREATHS: Sweet are the sweets. Sweets of sin.
BLOOM: My spine's a bit limp. Go or turn? And this food? Eat it and get BLOOM: My spine's a bit limp. Go or turn? And this food? Eat it and get
all pigsticky. Absurd I am. Waste of money. One and eightpence too much. all pigsticky. Absurd I am. Waste of money. One and eightpence too much.
(THE RETRIEVER DRIVES A COLD SNIVELLING MUZZLE AGAINST HIS HAND, WAGGING (THE RETRIEVER DRIVES A COLD SNIVELLING MUZZLE AGAINST HIS HAND, WAGGING
HIS TAIL.) Strange how they take to me. Even that brute today. Better HIS TAIL.) Strange how they take to me. Even that brute today. Better
speak to him first. Like women they like RENCONTRES. Stinks like a speak to him first. Like women they like RENCONTRES. Stinks like a
polecat. CHACUN SON GOUT. He might be mad. Dogdays. Uncertain in his polecat. CHACUN SON GOUT. He might be mad. Dogdays. Uncertain in his
movements. Good fellow! Fido! Good fellow! Garryowen! (THE WOLFDOG movements. Good fellow! Fido! Good fellow! Garryowen! (THE WOLFDOG
SPRAWLS ON HIS BACK, WRIGGLING OBSCENELY WITH BEGGING PAWS, HIS LONG SPRAWLS ON HIS BACK, WRIGGLING OBSCENELY WITH BEGGING PAWS, HIS LONG
BLACK TONGUE LOLLING OUT.) Influence of his surroundings. Give and have BLACK TONGUE LOLLING OUT.) Influence of his surroundings. Give and have
done with it. Provided nobody. (CALLING ENCOURAGING WORDS HE SHAMBLES done with it. Provided nobody. (CALLING ENCOURAGING WORDS HE SHAMBLES
BACK WITH A FURTIVE POACHER'S TREAD, DOGGED BY THE SETTER INTO A DARK BACK WITH A FURTIVE POACHER'S TREAD, DOGGED BY THE SETTER INTO A DARK
STALESTUNK CORNER. HE UNROLLS ONE PARCEL AND GOES TO DUMP THE CRUBEEN STALESTUNK CORNER. HE UNROLLS ONE PARCEL AND GOES TO DUMP THE CRUBEEN
SOFTLY BUT HOLDS BACK AND FEELS THE TROTTER.) Sizeable for threepence. SOFTLY BUT HOLDS BACK AND FEELS THE TROTTER.) Sizeable for threepence.
But then I have it in my left hand. Calls for more effort. Why? Smaller But then I have it in my left hand. Calls for more effort. Why? Smaller
from want of use. O, let it slide. Two and six. from want of use. O, let it slide. Two and six.
(WITH REGRET HE LETS THE UNROLLED CRUBEEN AND TROTTER SLIDE. THE MASTIFF (WITH REGRET HE LETS THE UNROLLED CRUBEEN AND TROTTER SLIDE. THE MASTIFF
MAULS THE BUNDLE CLUMSILY AND GLUTS HIMSELF WITH GROWLING GREED, MAULS THE BUNDLE CLUMSILY AND GLUTS HIMSELF WITH GROWLING GREED,
CRUNCHING THE BONES. TWO RAINCAPED WATCH APPROACH, SILENT, VIGILANT. THEY CRUNCHING THE BONES. TWO RAINCAPED WATCH APPROACH, SILENT, VIGILANT. THEY
MURMUR TOGETHER.) MURMUR TOGETHER.)
THE WATCH: Bloom. Of Bloom. For Bloom. Bloom. THE WATCH: Bloom. Of Bloom. For Bloom. Bloom.
(EACH LAYS HAND ON BLOOM'S SHOULDER.) (EACH LAYS HAND ON BLOOM'S SHOULDER.)
FIRST WATCH: Caught in the act. Commit no nuisance. FIRST WATCH: Caught in the act. Commit no nuisance.
BLOOM: (STAMMERS) I am doing good to others. BLOOM: (STAMMERS) I am doing good to others.
(A COVEY OF GULLS, STORM PETRELS, RISES HUNGRILY FROM LIFFEY SLIME WITH (A COVEY OF GULLS, STORM PETRELS, RISES HUNGRILY FROM LIFFEY SLIME WITH
BANBURY CAKES IN THEIR BEAKS.) BANBURY CAKES IN THEIR BEAKS.)
THE GULLS: Kaw kave kankury kake. THE GULLS: Kaw kave kankury kake.
BLOOM: The friend of man. Trained by kindness. BLOOM: The friend of man. Trained by kindness.
(HE POINTS. BOB DORAN, TOPPLING FROM A HIGH BARSTOOL, SWAYS OVER THE (HE POINTS. BOB DORAN, TOPPLING FROM A HIGH BARSTOOL, SWAYS OVER THE
MUNCHING SPANIEL.) MUNCHING SPANIEL.)
BOB DORAN: Towser. Give us the paw. Give the paw. BOB DORAN: Towser. Give us the paw. Give the paw.
(THE BULLDOG GROWLS, HIS SCRUFF STANDING, A GOBBET OF PIG'S KNUCKLE (THE BULLDOG GROWLS, HIS SCRUFF STANDING, A GOBBET OF PIG'S KNUCKLE
BETWEEN HIS MOLARS THROUGH WHICH RABID SCUMSPITTLE DRIBBLES. BOB DORAN BETWEEN HIS MOLARS THROUGH WHICH RABID SCUMSPITTLE DRIBBLES. BOB DORAN
FILLS SILENTLY INTO AN AREA.) FILLS SILENTLY INTO AN AREA.)
SECOND WATCH: Prevention of cruelty to animals. SECOND WATCH: Prevention of cruelty to animals.
BLOOM: (ENTHUSIASTICALLY) A noble work! I scolded that tramdriver on BLOOM: (ENTHUSIASTICALLY) A noble work! I scolded that tramdriver on
Harold's cross bridge for illusing the poor horse with his harness scab. Harold's cross bridge for illusing the poor horse with his harness scab.
Bad French I got for my pains. Of course it was frosty and the last tram. Bad French I got for my pains. Of course it was frosty and the last tram.
All tales of circus life are highly demoralising. All tales of circus life are highly demoralising.
(SIGNOR MAFFEI, PASSIONPALE, IN LIONTAMER'S COSTUME WITH DIAMOND STUDS IN (SIGNOR MAFFEI, PASSIONPALE, IN LIONTAMER'S COSTUME WITH DIAMOND STUDS IN
HIS SHIRTFRONT, STEPS FORWARD, HOLDING A CIRCUS PAPERHOOP, A CURLING HIS SHIRTFRONT, STEPS FORWARD, HOLDING A CIRCUS PAPERHOOP, A CURLING
CARRIAGEWHIP AND A REVOLVER WITH WHICH HE COVERS THE GORGING BOARHOUND.) CARRIAGEWHIP AND A REVOLVER WITH WHICH HE COVERS THE GORGING BOARHOUND.)
SIGNOR MAFFEI: (WITH A SINISTER SMILE) Ladies and gentlemen, my educated SIGNOR MAFFEI: (WITH A SINISTER SMILE) Ladies and gentlemen, my educated
greyhound. It was I broke in the bucking broncho Ajax with my patent greyhound. It was I broke in the bucking broncho Ajax with my patent
spiked saddle for carnivores. Lash under the belly with a knotted thong. spiked saddle for carnivores. Lash under the belly with a knotted thong.
Block tackle and a strangling pulley will bring your lion to heel, no Block tackle and a strangling pulley will bring your lion to heel, no
matter how fractious, even LEO FEROX there, the Libyan maneater. A redhot matter how fractious, even LEO FEROX there, the Libyan maneater. A redhot
crowbar and some liniment rubbing on the burning part produced Fritz of crowbar and some liniment rubbing on the burning part produced Fritz of
Amsterdam, the thinking hyena. (HE GLARES) I possess the Indian sign. The Amsterdam, the thinking hyena. (HE GLARES) I possess the Indian sign. The
glint of my eye does it with these breastsparklers. (WITH A BEWITCHING glint of my eye does it with these breastsparklers. (WITH A BEWITCHING
SMILE) I now introduce Mademoiselle Ruby, the pride of the ring. SMILE) I now introduce Mademoiselle Ruby, the pride of the ring.
FIRST WATCH: Come. Name and address. FIRST WATCH: Come. Name and address.
BLOOM: I have forgotten for the moment. Ah, yes! (HE TAKES OFF HIS HIGH BLOOM: I have forgotten for the moment. Ah, yes! (HE TAKES OFF HIS HIGH
GRADE HAT, SALUTING) Dr Bloom, Leopold, dental surgeon. You have heard of GRADE HAT, SALUTING) Dr Bloom, Leopold, dental surgeon. You have heard of
von Blum Pasha. Umpteen millions. DONNERWETTER! Owns half Austria. Egypt. von Blum Pasha. Umpteen millions. DONNERWETTER! Owns half Austria. Egypt.
Cousin. Cousin.
FIRST WATCH: Proof. FIRST WATCH: Proof.
(A CARD FALLS FROM INSIDE THE LEATHER HEADBAND OF BLOOM'S HAT.) (A CARD FALLS FROM INSIDE THE LEATHER HEADBAND OF BLOOM'S HAT.)
BLOOM: (IN RED FEZ, CADI'S DRESS COAT WITH BROAD GREEN SASH, WEARING A BLOOM: (IN RED FEZ, CADI'S DRESS COAT WITH BROAD GREEN SASH, WEARING A
FALSE BADGE OF THE LEGION OF HONOUR, PICKS UP THE CARD HASTILY AND OFFERS FALSE BADGE OF THE LEGION OF HONOUR, PICKS UP THE CARD HASTILY AND OFFERS
IT) Allow me. My club is the Junior Army and Navy. Solicitors: Messrs IT) Allow me. My club is the Junior Army and Navy. Solicitors: Messrs
John Henry Menton, 27 Bachelor's Walk. John Henry Menton, 27 Bachelor's Walk.
FIRST WATCH: (READS) Henry Flower. No fixed abode. Unlawfully watching FIRST WATCH: (READS) Henry Flower. No fixed abode. Unlawfully watching
and besetting. and besetting.
SECOND WATCH: An alibi. You are cautioned. SECOND WATCH: An alibi. You are cautioned.
BLOOM: (PRODUCES FROM HIS HEARTPOCKET A CRUMPLED YELLOW FLOWER) This is BLOOM: (PRODUCES FROM HIS HEARTPOCKET A CRUMPLED YELLOW FLOWER) This is
the flower in question. It was given me by a man I don't know his name. the flower in question. It was given me by a man I don't know his name.
(PLAUSIBLY) You know that old joke, rose of Castile. Bloom. The change of (PLAUSIBLY) You know that old joke, rose of Castile. Bloom. The change of
name. Virag. (HE MURMURS PRIVATELY AND CONFIDENTIALLY) We are engaged you name. Virag. (HE MURMURS PRIVATELY AND CONFIDENTIALLY) We are engaged you
see, sergeant. Lady in the case. Love entanglement. (HE SHOULDERS THE see, sergeant. Lady in the case. Love entanglement. (HE SHOULDERS THE
SECOND WATCH GENTLY) Dash it all. It's a way we gallants have in the SECOND WATCH GENTLY) Dash it all. It's a way we gallants have in the
navy. Uniform that does it. (HE TURNS GRAVELY TO THE FIRST WATCH) Still, navy. Uniform that does it. (HE TURNS GRAVELY TO THE FIRST WATCH) Still,
of course, you do get your Waterloo sometimes. Drop in some evening and of course, you do get your Waterloo sometimes. Drop in some evening and
have a glass of old Burgundy. (TO THE SECOND WATCH GAILY) I'll introduce have a glass of old Burgundy. (TO THE SECOND WATCH GAILY) I'll introduce
you, inspector. She's game. Do it in the shake of a lamb's tail. you, inspector. She's game. Do it in the shake of a lamb's tail.
(A DARK MERCURIALISED FACE APPEARS, LEADING A VEILED FIGURE.) (A DARK MERCURIALISED FACE APPEARS, LEADING A VEILED FIGURE.)
THE DARK MERCURY: The Castle is looking for him. He was drummed out of THE DARK MERCURY: The Castle is looking for him. He was drummed out of
the army. the army.
MARTHA: (THICKVEILED, A CRIMSON HALTER ROUND HER NECK, A COPY OF THE MARTHA: (THICKVEILED, A CRIMSON HALTER ROUND HER NECK, A COPY OF THE
Irish Times IN HER HAND, IN TONE OF REPROACH, POINTING) Henry! Leopold! Irish Times IN HER HAND, IN TONE OF REPROACH, POINTING) Henry! Leopold!
Lionel, thou lost one! Clear my name. Lionel, thou lost one! Clear my name.
FIRST WATCH: (STERNLY) Come to the station. FIRST WATCH: (STERNLY) Come to the station.
BLOOM: (SCARED, HATS HIMSELF, STEPS BACK, THEN, PLUCKING AT HIS HEART AND BLOOM: (SCARED, HATS HIMSELF, STEPS BACK, THEN, PLUCKING AT HIS HEART AND
LIFTING HIS RIGHT FOREARM ON THE SQUARE, HE GIVES THE SIGN AND DUEGUARD LIFTING HIS RIGHT FOREARM ON THE SQUARE, HE GIVES THE SIGN AND DUEGUARD
OF FELLOWCRAFT) No, no, worshipful master, light of love. Mistaken OF FELLOWCRAFT) No, no, worshipful master, light of love. Mistaken
identity. The Lyons mail. Lesurques and Dubosc. You remember the Childs identity. The Lyons mail. Lesurques and Dubosc. You remember the Childs
fratricide case. We medical men. By striking him dead with a hatchet. I fratricide case. We medical men. By striking him dead with a hatchet. I
am wrongfully accused. Better one guilty escape than ninetynine am wrongfully accused. Better one guilty escape than ninetynine
wrongfully condemned. wrongfully condemned.
MARTHA: (SOBBING BEHIND HER VEIL) Breach of promise. My real name is MARTHA: (SOBBING BEHIND HER VEIL) Breach of promise. My real name is
Peggy Griffin. He wrote to me that he was miserable. I'll tell my Peggy Griffin. He wrote to me that he was miserable. I'll tell my
brother, the Bective rugger fullback, on you, heartless flirt. brother, the Bective rugger fullback, on you, heartless flirt.
BLOOM: (BEHIND HIS HAND) She's drunk. The woman is inebriated. (HE BLOOM: (BEHIND HIS HAND) She's drunk. The woman is inebriated. (HE
MURMURS VAGUELY THE PASS OF EPHRAIM) Shitbroleeth. MURMURS VAGUELY THE PASS OF EPHRAIM) Shitbroleeth.
SECOND WATCH: (TEARS IN HIS EYES, TO BLOOM) You ought to be thoroughly SECOND WATCH: (TEARS IN HIS EYES, TO BLOOM) You ought to be thoroughly
well ashamed of yourself. well ashamed of yourself.
BLOOM: Gentlemen of the jury, let me explain. A pure mare's nest. I am a BLOOM: Gentlemen of the jury, let me explain. A pure mare's nest. I am a
man misunderstood. I am being made a scapegoat of. I am a respectable man misunderstood. I am being made a scapegoat of. I am a respectable
married man, without a stain on my character. I live in Eccles street. My married man, without a stain on my character. I live in Eccles street. My
wife, I am the daughter of a most distinguished commander, a gallant wife, I am the daughter of a most distinguished commander, a gallant
upstanding gentleman, what do you call him, Majorgeneral Brian Tweedy, upstanding gentleman, what do you call him, Majorgeneral Brian Tweedy,
one of Britain's fighting men who helped to win our battles. Got his one of Britain's fighting men who helped to win our battles. Got his
majority for the heroic defence of Rorke's Drift. majority for the heroic defence of Rorke's Drift.
FIRST WATCH: Regiment. FIRST WATCH: Regiment.
BLOOM: (TURNS TO THE GALLERY) The royal Dublins, boys, the salt of the BLOOM: (TURNS TO THE GALLERY) The royal Dublins, boys, the salt of the
earth, known the world over. I think I see some old comrades in arms up earth, known the world over. I think I see some old comrades in arms up
there among you. The R. D. F., with our own Metropolitan police, there among you. The R. D. F., with our own Metropolitan police,
guardians of our homes, the pluckiest lads and the finest body of men, as guardians of our homes, the pluckiest lads and the finest body of men, as
physique, in the service of our sovereign. physique, in the service of our sovereign.
A VOICE: Turncoat! Up the Boers! Who booed Joe Chamberlain? A VOICE: Turncoat! Up the Boers! Who booed Joe Chamberlain?
BLOOM: (HIS HAND ON THE SHOULDER OF THE FIRST WATCH) My old dad too was a BLOOM: (HIS HAND ON THE SHOULDER OF THE FIRST WATCH) My old dad too was a
J. P. I'm as staunch a Britisher as you are, sir. I fought with the J. P. I'm as staunch a Britisher as you are, sir. I fought with the
colours for king and country in the absentminded war under general Gough colours for king and country in the absentminded war under general Gough
in the park and was disabled at Spion Kop and Bloemfontein, was mentioned in the park and was disabled at Spion Kop and Bloemfontein, was mentioned
in dispatches. I did all a white man could. (WITH QUIET FEELING) Jim in dispatches. I did all a white man could. (WITH QUIET FEELING) Jim
Bludso. Hold her nozzle again the bank. Bludso. Hold her nozzle again the bank.
FIRST WATCH: Profession or trade. FIRST WATCH: Profession or trade.
