wheedling voice: wheedling voice:
--When I makes tea I makes tea, as old mother Grogan said. And when I --When I makes tea I makes tea, as old mother Grogan said. And when I
suddenly withdrawn all shrewd sense, blinking with mad gaiety. He moved a suddenly withdrawn all shrewd sense, blinking with mad gaiety. He moved a
doll's head to and fro, the brims of his Panama hat quivering, and began doll's head to and fro, the brims of his Panama hat quivering, and began
to chant in a quiet happy foolish voice: to chant in a quiet happy foolish voice:
  --I'M THE QUEEREST YOUNG FELLOW THAT EVER YOU HEARD.   --I'M THE QUEEREST YOUNG FELLOW THAT EVER YOU HEARD.
    MY MOTHER'S A JEW, MY FATHER'S A BIRD.     MY MOTHER'S A JEW, MY FATHER'S A BIRD.
    WITH JOSEPH THE JOINER I CANNOT AGREE.     WITH JOSEPH THE JOINER I CANNOT AGREE.
    SO HERE'S TO DISCIPLES AND CALVARY.     SO HERE'S TO DISCIPLES AND CALVARY.
He held up a forefinger of warning. He held up a forefinger of warning.
--Ah, go to God! Buck Mulligan said. --Ah, go to God! Buck Mulligan said.
--Going over next week to stew. You know that red Carlisle girl, Lily? --Going over next week to stew. You know that red Carlisle girl, Lily?
--Yes. --Yes.
--Spooning with him last night on the pier. The father is rotto with --Spooning with him last night on the pier. The father is rotto with
money. money.
--Is she up the pole? --Is she up the pole?
--Better ask Seymour that. --Better ask Seymour that.
--Seymour a bleeding officer! Buck Mulligan said. --Seymour a bleeding officer! Buck Mulligan said.
He nodded to himself as he drew off his trousers and stood up, saying He nodded to himself as he drew off his trousers and stood up, saying
tritely: tritely:
--Redheaded women buck like goats. --Redheaded women buck like goats.
He broke off in alarm, feeling his side under his flapping shirt. He broke off in alarm, feeling his side under his flapping shirt.
--My twelfth rib is gone, he cried. I'm the UBERMENSCH. Toothless Kinch --My twelfth rib is gone, he cried. I'm the UBERMENSCH. Toothless Kinch
and I, the supermen. and I, the supermen.
He struggled out of his shirt and flung it behind him to where his He struggled out of his shirt and flung it behind him to where his
clothes lay. clothes lay.
--Are you going in here, Malachi? --Are you going in here, Malachi?
adding to her other laureis and putting the others totally in the shade, adding to her other laureis and putting the others totally in the shade,
in the jesuit fathers' church in upper Gardiner street, the sacred in the jesuit fathers' church in upper Gardiner street, the sacred
edifice being thronged to the doors to hear her with virtuosos, or edifice being thronged to the doors to hear her with virtuosos, or
    FOR LYCIDAS, YOUR SORROW, IS NOT DEAD,     FOR LYCIDAS, YOUR SORROW, IS NOT DEAD,
    SUNK THOUGH HE BE BENEATH THE WATERY FLOOR ...     SUNK THOUGH HE BE BENEATH THE WATERY FLOOR ...
It must be a movement then, an actuality of the possible as possible. It must be a movement then, an actuality of the possible as possible.
Aristotle's phrase formed itself within the gabbled verses and floated Aristotle's phrase formed itself within the gabbled verses and floated
out into the studious silence of the library of Saint Genevieve where he out into the studious silence of the library of Saint Genevieve where he
had read, sheltered from the sin of Paris, night by night. By his elbow a had read, sheltered from the sin of Paris, night by night. By his elbow a
haft a long tuft of grass. One, leaving his mates, walked slowly on with haft a long tuft of grass. One, leaving his mates, walked slowly on with
shouldered weapon, its blade blueglancing. Silently at the gravehead shouldered weapon, its blade blueglancing. Silently at the gravehead
sisters, loves that dare not speak their name, nephews with grandmothers, sisters, loves that dare not speak their name, nephews with grandmothers,
jailbirds with keyholes, queens with prize bulls. The son unborn mars jailbirds with keyholes, queens with prize bulls. The son unborn mars
beauty: born, he brings pain, divides affection, increases care. He is a beauty: born, he brings pain, divides affection, increases care. He is a
new male: his growth is his father's decline, his youth his father's new male: his growth is his father's decline, his youth his father's
envy, his friend his father's enemy. envy, his friend his father's enemy.
In rue Monsieur-le-Prince I thought it. In rue Monsieur-le-Prince I thought it.
--What links them in nature? An instant of blind rut. --What links them in nature? An instant of blind rut.
Am I a father? If I were? Am I a father? If I were?
Shrunken uncertain hand. Shrunken uncertain hand.
--Sabellius, the African, subtlest heresiarch of all the beasts of the --Sabellius, the African, subtlest heresiarch of all the beasts of the
field, held that the Father was Himself His Own Son. The bulldog of field, held that the Father was Himself His Own Son. The bulldog of
Aquin, with whom no word shall be impossible, refutes him. Well: if the Aquin, with whom no word shall be impossible, refutes him. Well: if the
father who has not a son be not a father can the son who has not a father father who has not a son be not a father can the son who has not a father
be a son? When Rutlandbaconsouthamptonshakespeare or another poet of the be a son? When Rutlandbaconsouthamptonshakespeare or another poet of the
same name in the comedy of errors wrote HAMLET he was not the father of same name in the comedy of errors wrote HAMLET he was not the father of
his own son merely but, being no more a son, he was and felt himself the his own son merely but, being no more a son, he was and felt himself the
father of all his race, the father of his own grandfather, the father of father of all his race, the father of his own grandfather, the father of
his unborn grandson who, by the same token, never was born, for nature, his unborn grandson who, by the same token, never was born, for nature,
as Mr Magee understands her, abhors perfection. as Mr Magee understands her, abhors perfection.
Eglintoneyes, quick with pleasure, looked up shybrightly. Gladly Eglintoneyes, quick with pleasure, looked up shybrightly. Gladly
glancing, a merry puritan, through the twisted eglantine. glancing, a merry puritan, through the twisted eglantine.
Flatter. Rarely. But flatter. Flatter. Rarely. But flatter.
--Himself his own father, Sonmulligan told himself. Wait. I am big with --Himself his own father, Sonmulligan told himself. Wait. I am big with
child. I have an unborn child in my brain. Pallas Athena! A play! The child. I have an unborn child in my brain. Pallas Athena! A play! The
play's the thing! Let me parturiate! play's the thing! Let me parturiate!
He clasped his paunchbrow with both birthaiding hands. He clasped his paunchbrow with both birthaiding hands.
--As for his family, Stephen said, his mother's name lives in the forest --As for his family, Stephen said, his mother's name lives in the forest
of Arden. Her death brought from him the scene with Volumnia in of Arden. Her death brought from him the scene with Volumnia in
CORIOLANUS. His boyson's death is the deathscene of young Arthur in KING CORIOLANUS. His boyson's death is the deathscene of young Arthur in KING
chimneysweep near shove my eye out with his brush? chimneysweep near shove my eye out with his brush?
--Soot's luck, says Joe. Who's the old ballocks you were talking to? --Soot's luck, says Joe. Who's the old ballocks you were talking to?
--Old Troy, says I, was in the force. I'm on two minds not to give that --Old Troy, says I, was in the force. I'm on two minds not to give that
fellow in charge for obstructing the thoroughfare with his brooms and fellow in charge for obstructing the thoroughfare with his brooms and
ladders. ladders.
--What are you doing round those parts? says Joe. --What are you doing round those parts? says Joe.
--Devil a much, says I. There's a bloody big foxy thief beyond by the --Devil a much, says I. There's a bloody big foxy thief beyond by the
garrison church at the corner of Chicken lane--old Troy was just giving garrison church at the corner of Chicken lane--old Troy was just giving
me a wrinkle about him--lifted any God's quantity of tea and sugar to pay me a wrinkle about him--lifted any God's quantity of tea and sugar to pay
three bob a week said he had a farm in the county Down off a three bob a week said he had a farm in the county Down off a
hop-of-my-thumb by the name of Moses Herzog over there near Heytesbury hop-of-my-thumb by the name of Moses Herzog over there near Heytesbury
street. street.
--Circumcised? says Joe. --Circumcised? says Joe.
--Ay, says I. A bit off the top. An old plumber named Geraghty. I'm --Ay, says I. A bit off the top. An old plumber named Geraghty. I'm
hanging on to his taw now for the past fortnight and I can't get a penny hanging on to his taw now for the past fortnight and I can't get a penny
out of him. out of him.
--That the lay you're on now? says Joe. --That the lay you're on now? says Joe.
--Ay, says I. How are the mighty fallen! Collector of bad and doubtful --Ay, says I. How are the mighty fallen! Collector of bad and doubtful
debts. But that's the most notorious bloody robber you'd meet in a day's debts. But that's the most notorious bloody robber you'd meet in a day's
walk and the face on him all pockmarks would hold a shower of rain. TELL walk and the face on him all pockmarks would hold a shower of rain. TELL
HIM, says he, I DARE HIM, says he, AND I DOUBLEDARE HIM TO SEND YOU ROUND HIM, says he, I DARE HIM, says he, AND I DOUBLEDARE HIM TO SEND YOU ROUND
HERE AGAIN OR IF HE DOES, says he, I'LL HAVE HIM SUMMONSED UP BEFORE THE HERE AGAIN OR IF HE DOES, says he, I'LL HAVE HIM SUMMONSED UP BEFORE THE
COURT, SO I WILL, FOR TRADING WITHOUT A LICENCE. And he after stuffing COURT, SO I WILL, FOR TRADING WITHOUT A LICENCE. And he after stuffing
himself till he's fit to burst. Jesus, I had to laugh at the little jewy himself till he's fit to burst. Jesus, I had to laugh at the little jewy
getting his shirt out. HE DRINK ME MY TEAS. HE EAT ME MY SUGARS. BECAUSE getting his shirt out. HE DRINK ME MY TEAS. HE EAT ME MY SUGARS. BECAUSE
HE NO PAY ME MY MONEYS? HE NO PAY ME MY MONEYS?
For nonperishable goods bought of Moses Herzog, of 13 Saint For nonperishable goods bought of Moses Herzog, of 13 Saint
Kevin's parade in the city of Dublin, Wood quay ward, merchant, Kevin's parade in the city of Dublin, Wood quay ward, merchant,
hereinafter called the vendor, and sold and delivered to Michael E. hereinafter called the vendor, and sold and delivered to Michael E.
Geraghty, esquire, of 29 Arbour hill in the city of Dublin, Arran quay Geraghty, esquire, of 29 Arbour hill in the city of Dublin, Arran quay
ward, gentleman, hereinafter called the purchaser, videlicet, five pounds ward, gentleman, hereinafter called the purchaser, videlicet, five pounds
avoirdupois of first choice tea at three shillings and no pence per pound avoirdupois of first choice tea at three shillings and no pence per pound
avoirdupois and three stone avoirdupois of sugar, crushed crystal, at avoirdupois and three stone avoirdupois of sugar, crushed crystal, at
threepence per pound avoirdupois, the said purchaser debtor to the said threepence per pound avoirdupois, the said purchaser debtor to the said
vendor of one pound five shillings and sixpence sterling for value vendor of one pound five shillings and sixpence sterling for value
received which amount shall be paid by said purchaser to said vendor in received which amount shall be paid by said purchaser to said vendor in
weekly instalments every seven calendar days of three shillings and no weekly instalments every seven calendar days of three shillings and no
pence sterling: and the said nonperishable goods shall not be pawned or pence sterling: and the said nonperishable goods shall not be pawned or
pledged or sold or otherwise alienated by the said purchaser but shall be pledged or sold or otherwise alienated by the said purchaser but shall be
and remain and be held to be the sole and exclusive property of the said and remain and be held to be the sole and exclusive property of the said
vendor to be disposed of at his good will and pleasure until the said vendor to be disposed of at his good will and pleasure until the said
amount shall have been duly paid by the said purchaser to the said vendor amount shall have been duly paid by the said purchaser to the said vendor
in the manner herein set forth as this day hereby agreed between the said in the manner herein set forth as this day hereby agreed between the said
vendor, his heirs, successors, trustees and assigns of the one part and vendor, his heirs, successors, trustees and assigns of the one part and
the said purchaser, his heirs, successors, trustees and assigns of the the said purchaser, his heirs, successors, trustees and assigns of the
other part. other part.
--Are you a strict t.t.? says Joe. --Are you a strict t.t.? says Joe.
--Not taking anything between drinks, says I. --Not taking anything between drinks, says I.
--What about paying our respects to our friend? says Joe. --What about paying our respects to our friend? says Joe.
--Yes, Mr Best said youngly. I feel Hamlet quite young. The bitterness --Yes, Mr Best said youngly. I feel Hamlet quite young. The bitterness
might be from the father but the passages with Ophelia are surely from might be from the father but the passages with Ophelia are surely from
the son. the son.
Has the wrong sow by the lug. He is in my father. I am in his son. Has the wrong sow by the lug. He is in my father. I am in his son.
--That mole is the last to go, Stephen said, laughing. --That mole is the last to go, Stephen said, laughing.
John Eglinton made a nothing pleasing mow. John Eglinton made a nothing pleasing mow.
--If that were the birthmark of genius, he said, genius would be a drug --If that were the birthmark of genius, he said, genius would be a drug
in the market. The plays of Shakespeare's later years which Renan admired in the market. The plays of Shakespeare's later years which Renan admired
so much breathe another spirit. so much breathe another spirit.
--The spirit of reconciliation, the quaker librarian breathed. --The spirit of reconciliation, the quaker librarian breathed.
--There can be no reconciliation, Stephen said, if there has not been a --There can be no reconciliation, Stephen said, if there has not been a
sundering. sundering.
Said that. Said that.
--If you want to know what are the events which cast their shadow over --If you want to know what are the events which cast their shadow over
the hell of time of KING LEAR, OTHELLO, HAMLET, TROILUS AND CRESSIDA, the hell of time of KING LEAR, OTHELLO, HAMLET, TROILUS AND CRESSIDA,
look to see when and how the shadow lifts. What softens the heart of a look to see when and how the shadow lifts. What softens the heart of a
man, shipwrecked in storms dire, Tried, like another Ulysses, Pericles, man, shipwrecked in storms dire, Tried, like another Ulysses, Pericles,
prince of Tyre? prince of Tyre?
Head, redconecapped, buffeted, brineblinded. Head, redconecapped, buffeted, brineblinded.
--A child, a girl, placed in his arms, Marina. --A child, a girl, placed in his arms, Marina.
--The leaning of sophists towards the bypaths of apocrypha is a constant --The leaning of sophists towards the bypaths of apocrypha is a constant
quantity, John Eglinton detected. The highroads are dreary but they lead quantity, John Eglinton detected. The highroads are dreary but they lead
to the town. to the town.
Good Bacon: gone musty. Shakespeare Bacon's wild oats. Cypherjugglers Good Bacon: gone musty. Shakespeare Bacon's wild oats. Cypherjugglers
going the highroads. Seekers on the great quest. What town, good masters? going the highroads. Seekers on the great quest. What town, good masters?
Mummed in names: A. E., eon: Magee, John Eglinton. East of the sun, west Mummed in names: A. E., eon: Magee, John Eglinton. East of the sun, west
of the moon: TIR NA N-OG. Booted the twain and staved. of the moon: TIR NA N-OG. Booted the twain and staved.
    HOW MANY MILES TO DUBLIN?     HOW MANY MILES TO DUBLIN?
--I came through the museum, Buck Mulligan said. Was he here? --I came through the museum, Buck Mulligan said. Was he here?
--The bard's fellowcountrymen, John Eglinton answered, are rather tired --The bard's fellowcountrymen, John Eglinton answered, are rather tired
perhaps of our brilliancies of theorising. I hear that an actress played perhaps of our brilliancies of theorising. I hear that an actress played
Hamlet for the fourhundredandeighth time last night in Dublin. Vining Hamlet for the fourhundredandeighth time last night in Dublin. Vining
held that the prince was a woman. Has no-one made him out to be an held that the prince was a woman. Has no-one made him out to be an
Irishman? Judge Barton, I believe, is searching for some clues. He swears Irishman? Judge Barton, I believe, is searching for some clues. He swears
(His Highness not His Lordship) by saint Patrick. (His Highness not His Lordship) by saint Patrick.
--The most brilliant of all is that story of Wilde's, Mr Best said, --The most brilliant of all is that story of Wilde's, Mr Best said,
lifting his brilliant notebook. That PORTRAIT OF MR W. H. where he proves lifting his brilliant notebook. That PORTRAIT OF MR W. H. where he proves
that the sonnets were written by a Willie Hughes, a man all hues. that the sonnets were written by a Willie Hughes, a man all hues.
--For Willie Hughes, is it not? the quaker librarian asked. --For Willie Hughes, is it not? the quaker librarian asked.
Or Hughie Wills? Mr William Himself. W. H.: who am I? Or Hughie Wills? Mr William Himself. W. H.: who am I?
--I mean, for Willie Hughes, Mr Best said, amending his gloss easily. Of --I mean, for Willie Hughes, Mr Best said, amending his gloss easily. Of
course it's all paradox, don't you know, Hughes and hews and hues, the course it's all paradox, don't you know, Hughes and hews and hues, the
colour, but it's so typical the way he works it out. It's the very colour, but it's so typical the way he works it out. It's the very
essence of Wilde, don't you know. The light touch. essence of Wilde, don't you know. The light touch.
His glance touched their faces lightly as he smiled, a blond ephebe. Tame His glance touched their faces lightly as he smiled, a blond ephebe. Tame
essence of Wilde. essence of Wilde.
You're darned witty. Three drams of usquebaugh you drank with Dan Deasy's You're darned witty. Three drams of usquebaugh you drank with Dan Deasy's
ducats. ducats.
How much did I spend? O, a few shillings. How much did I spend? O, a few shillings.
For a plump of pressmen. Humour wet and dry. For a plump of pressmen. Humour wet and dry.
Wit. You would give your five wits for youth's proud livery he pranks in. Wit. You would give your five wits for youth's proud livery he pranks in.
Lineaments of gratified desire. Lineaments of gratified desire.
There be many mo. Take her for me. In pairing time. Jove, a cool ruttime There be many mo. Take her for me. In pairing time. Jove, a cool ruttime
Venus Kallipyge. O, the thunder of those loins! THE GOD PURSUING THE Venus Kallipyge. O, the thunder of those loins! THE GOD PURSUING THE
MAIDEN HID. MAIDEN HID.
--We want to hear more, John Eglinton decided with Mr Best's approval. We --We want to hear more, John Eglinton decided with Mr Best's approval. We
begin to be interested in Mrs S. Till now we had thought of her, if at begin to be interested in Mrs S. Till now we had thought of her, if at
all, as a patient Griselda, a Penelope stayathome. all, as a patient Griselda, a Penelope stayathome.
--Antisthenes, pupil of Gorgias, Stephen said, took the palm of beauty --Antisthenes, pupil of Gorgias, Stephen said, took the palm of beauty
from Kyrios Menelaus' brooddam, Argive Helen, the wooden mare of Troy in from Kyrios Menelaus' brooddam, Argive Helen, the wooden mare of Troy in
whom a score of heroes slept, and handed it to poor Penelope. Twenty whom a score of heroes slept, and handed it to poor Penelope. Twenty
years he lived in London and, during part of that time, he drew a salary years he lived in London and, during part of that time, he drew a salary
equal to that of the lord chancellor of Ireland. His life was rich. His equal to that of the lord chancellor of Ireland. His life was rich. His
art, more than the art of feudalism as Walt Whitman called it, is the art art, more than the art of feudalism as Walt Whitman called it, is the art
of surfeit. Hot herringpies, green mugs of sack, honeysauces, sugar of of surfeit. Hot herringpies, green mugs of sack, honeysauces, sugar of
roses, marchpane, gooseberried pigeons, ringocandies. Sir Walter Raleigh, roses, marchpane, gooseberried pigeons, ringocandies. Sir Walter Raleigh,
when they arrested him, had half a million francs on his back including a when they arrested him, had half a million francs on his back including a
pair of fancy stays. The gombeenwoman Eliza Tudor had underlinen enough pair of fancy stays. The gombeenwoman Eliza Tudor had underlinen enough
to vie with her of Sheba. Twenty years he dallied there between conjugial to vie with her of Sheba. Twenty years he dallied there between conjugial
love and its chaste delights and scortatory love and its foul pleasures. love and its chaste delights and scortatory love and its foul pleasures.
You know Manningham's story of the burgher's wife who bade Dick Burbage You know Manningham's story of the burgher's wife who bade Dick Burbage
to her bed after she had seen him in RICHARD III and how Shakespeare, to her bed after she had seen him in RICHARD III and how Shakespeare,
and he was just asking himself what possible connection when the sailor and he was just asking himself what possible connection when the sailor
of his own accord turned to the other occupants of the shelter with the of his own accord turned to the other occupants of the shelter with the
remark: remark:
--I seen him shoot two eggs off two bottles at fifty yards over his --I seen him shoot two eggs off two bottles at fifty yards over his
shoulder. The lefthand dead shot. shoulder. The lefthand dead shot.
Though he was slightly hampered by an occasional stammer and his gestures Though he was slightly hampered by an occasional stammer and his gestures
being also clumsy as it was still he did his best to explain. being also clumsy as it was still he did his best to explain.
--Bottles out there, say. Fifty yards measured. Eggs on the bottles. --Bottles out there, say. Fifty yards measured. Eggs on the bottles.
Cocks his gun over his shoulder. Aims. Cocks his gun over his shoulder. Aims.
He turned his body half round, shut up his right eye completely. Then he He turned his body half round, shut up his right eye completely. Then he
screwed his features up someway sideways and glared out into the night screwed his features up someway sideways and glared out into the night
with an unprepossessing cast of countenance. with an unprepossessing cast of countenance.
--Pom! he then shouted once. --Pom! he then shouted once.
The entire audience waited, anticipating an additional detonation, there The entire audience waited, anticipating an additional detonation, there
being still a further egg. being still a further egg.
--Pom! he shouted twice. --Pom! he shouted twice.
Egg two evidently demolished, he nodded and winked, adding Egg two evidently demolished, he nodded and winked, adding
bloodthirstily: bloodthirstily:
  --BUFFALO BILL SHOOTS TO KILL,   --BUFFALO BILL SHOOTS TO KILL,
    NEVER MISSED NOR HE NEVER WILL.     NEVER MISSED NOR HE NEVER WILL.
A silence ensued till Mr Bloom for agreeableness' sake just felt like A silence ensued till Mr Bloom for agreeableness' sake just felt like
asking him whether it was for a marksmanship competition like the Bisley. asking him whether it was for a marksmanship competition like the Bisley.
--Beg pardon, the sailor said. --Beg pardon, the sailor said.
--Long ago? Mr Bloom pursued without flinching a hairsbreadth. --Long ago? Mr Bloom pursued without flinching a hairsbreadth.
--Why, the sailor replied, relaxing to a certain extent under the magic --Why, the sailor replied, relaxing to a certain extent under the magic
influence of diamond cut diamond, it might be a matter of ten years. He influence of diamond cut diamond, it might be a matter of ten years. He
toured the wide world with Hengler's Royal Circus. I seen him do that in toured the wide world with Hengler's Royal Circus. I seen him do that in
Stockholm. Stockholm.
--Curious coincidence, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen unobtrusively. --Curious coincidence, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen unobtrusively.
--Murphy's my name, the sailor continued. D. B. Murphy of Carrigaloe. --Murphy's my name, the sailor continued. D. B. Murphy of Carrigaloe.
Know where that is? Know where that is?
--Queenstown harbour, Stephen replied. --Queenstown harbour, Stephen replied.
--That's right, the sailor said. Fort Camden and Fort Carlisle. That's --That's right, the sailor said. Fort Camden and Fort Carlisle. That's
where I hails from. I belongs there. That's where I hails from. My little where I hails from. I belongs there. That's where I hails from. My little
woman's down there. She's waiting for me, I know. FOR ENGLAND, HOME AND woman's down there. She's waiting for me, I know. FOR ENGLAND, HOME AND
BEAUTY. She's my own true wife I haven't seen for seven years now, BEAUTY. She's my own true wife I haven't seen for seven years now,
sailing about. sailing about.
Mr Bloom could easily picture his advent on this scene, the homecoming to Mr Bloom could easily picture his advent on this scene, the homecoming to
the mariner's roadside shieling after having diddled Davy Jones, a rainy the mariner's roadside shieling after having diddled Davy Jones, a rainy
night with a blind moon. Across the world for a wife. Quite a number of night with a blind moon. Across the world for a wife. Quite a number of
stories there were on that particular Alice Ben Bolt topic, Enoch Arden stories there were on that particular Alice Ben Bolt topic, Enoch Arden
and Rip van Winkle and does anybody hereabouts remember Caoc O'Leary, a and Rip van Winkle and does anybody hereabouts remember Caoc O'Leary, a
favourite and most trying declamation piece by the way of poor John Casey favourite and most trying declamation piece by the way of poor John Casey
and a bit of perfect poetry in its own small way. Never about the runaway and a bit of perfect poetry in its own small way. Never about the runaway
wife coming back, however much devoted to the absentee. The face at the wife coming back, however much devoted to the absentee. The face at the
window! Judge of his astonishment when he finally did breast the tape and window! Judge of his astonishment when he finally did breast the tape and
the awful truth dawned upon him anent his better half, wrecked in his the awful truth dawned upon him anent his better half, wrecked in his
affections. You little expected me but I've come to stay and make a fresh affections. You little expected me but I've come to stay and make a fresh
start. There she sits, a grasswidow, at the selfsame fireside. Believes start. There she sits, a grasswidow, at the selfsame fireside. Believes
me dead, rocked in the cradle of the deep. And there sits uncle Chubb or me dead, rocked in the cradle of the deep. And there sits uncle Chubb or
Tomkin, as the case might be, the publican of the Crown and Anchor, in Tomkin, as the case might be, the publican of the Crown and Anchor, in
shirtsleeves, eating rumpsteak and onions. No chair for father. Broo! The shirtsleeves, eating rumpsteak and onions. No chair for father. Broo! The
wind! Her brandnew arrival is on her knee, POST MORTEM child. With a high wind! Her brandnew arrival is on her knee, POST MORTEM child. With a high
ro! and a randy ro! and my galloping tearing tandy, O! Bow to the ro! and a randy ro! and my galloping tearing tandy, O! Bow to the
inevitable. Grin and bear it. I remain with much love your brokenhearted inevitable. Grin and bear it. I remain with much love your brokenhearted
husband D B Murphy. husband D B Murphy.
The sailor, who scarcely seemed to be a Dublin resident, turned to one of The sailor, who scarcely seemed to be a Dublin resident, turned to one of
the jarvies with the request: the jarvies with the request:
--You don't happen to have such a thing as a spare chaw about you? --You don't happen to have such a thing as a spare chaw about you?
The jarvey addressed as it happened had not but the keeper took a die of The jarvey addressed as it happened had not but the keeper took a die of
plug from his good jacket hanging on a nail and the desired object was plug from his good jacket hanging on a nail and the desired object was
passed from hand to hand. passed from hand to hand.
--Thank you, the sailor said. --Thank you, the sailor said.
He deposited the quid in his gob and, chewing and with some slow He deposited the quid in his gob and, chewing and with some slow
stammers, proceeded: stammers, proceeded:
--We come up this morning eleven o'clock. The threemaster ROSEVEAN from --We come up this morning eleven o'clock. The threemaster ROSEVEAN from
Bridgwater with bricks. I shipped to get over. Paid off this afternoon. Bridgwater with bricks. I shipped to get over. Paid off this afternoon.
There's my discharge. See? D. B. Murphy. A. B. S. There's my discharge. See? D. B. Murphy. A. B. S.
In confirmation of which statement he extricated from an inside pocket In confirmation of which statement he extricated from an inside pocket
and handed to his neighbour a not very cleanlooking folded document. and handed to his neighbour a not very cleanlooking folded document.
--You must have seen a fair share of the world, the keeper remarked, --You must have seen a fair share of the world, the keeper remarked,
leaning on the counter. leaning on the counter.
--Why, the sailor answered upon reflection upon it, I've circumnavigated --Why, the sailor answered upon reflection upon it, I've circumnavigated
a bit since I first joined on. I was in the Red Sea. I was in China and a bit since I first joined on. I was in the Red Sea. I was in China and
North America and South America. We was chased by pirates one voyage. I North America and South America. We was chased by pirates one voyage. I
seen icebergs plenty, growlers. I was in Stockholm and the Black Sea, the seen icebergs plenty, growlers. I was in Stockholm and the Black Sea, the
Dardanelles under Captain Dalton, the best bloody man that ever scuttled Dardanelles under Captain Dalton, the best bloody man that ever scuttled
a ship. I seen Russia. GOSPODI POMILYOU. That's how the Russians prays. a ship. I seen Russia. GOSPODI POMILYOU. That's how the Russians prays.
--You seen queer sights, don't be talking, put in a jarvey. --You seen queer sights, don't be talking, put in a jarvey.
--Why, the sailor said, shifting his partially chewed plug. I seen queer --Why, the sailor said, shifting his partially chewed plug. I seen queer
things too, ups and downs. I seen a crocodile bite the fluke of an anchor things too, ups and downs. I seen a crocodile bite the fluke of an anchor
same as I chew that quid. same as I chew that quid.
He took out of his mouth the pulpy quid and, lodging it between his He took out of his mouth the pulpy quid and, lodging it between his
teeth, bit ferociously: teeth, bit ferociously:
--Khaan! Like that. And I seen maneaters in Peru that eats corpses and --Khaan! Like that. And I seen maneaters in Peru that eats corpses and
the livers of horses. Look here. Here they are. A friend of mine sent me. the livers of horses. Look here. Here they are. A friend of mine sent me.
He fumbled out a picture postcard from his inside pocket which seemed to He fumbled out a picture postcard from his inside pocket which seemed to
be in its way a species of repository and pushed it along the table. The be in its way a species of repository and pushed it along the table. The
printed matter on it stated: CHOZA DE INDIOS. BENI, BOLIVIA. printed matter on it stated: CHOZA DE INDIOS. BENI, BOLIVIA.
All focussed their attention at the scene exhibited, a group of savage All focussed their attention at the scene exhibited, a group of savage
women in striped loincloths, squatted, blinking, suckling, frowning, women in striped loincloths, squatted, blinking, suckling, frowning,
sleeping amid a swarm of infants (there must have been quite a score of sleeping amid a swarm of infants (there must have been quite a score of
them) outside some primitive shanties of osier. them) outside some primitive shanties of osier.
--Chews coca all day, the communicative tarpaulin added. Stomachs like --Chews coca all day, the communicative tarpaulin added. Stomachs like
breadgraters. Cuts off their diddies when they can't bear no more breadgraters. Cuts off their diddies when they can't bear no more
children. children.
See them sitting there stark ballocknaked eating a dead horse's liver See them sitting there stark ballocknaked eating a dead horse's liver
raw. raw.
His postcard proved a centre of attraction for Messrs the greenhorns for His postcard proved a centre of attraction for Messrs the greenhorns for
several minutes if not more. several minutes if not more.
--Know how to keep them off? he inquired generally. --Know how to keep them off? he inquired generally.
Nobody volunteering a statement he winked, saying: Nobody volunteering a statement he winked, saying:
--Glass. That boggles 'em. Glass. --Glass. That boggles 'em. Glass.
Mr Bloom, without evincing surprise, unostentatiously turned over the Mr Bloom, without evincing surprise, unostentatiously turned over the
card to peruse the partially obliterated address and postmark. It ran as card to peruse the partially obliterated address and postmark. It ran as
follows: TARJETA POSTAL, SENOR A BOUDIN, GALERIA BECCHE, SANTIAGO, CHILE. follows: TARJETA POSTAL, SENOR A BOUDIN, GALERIA BECCHE, SANTIAGO, CHILE.
There was no message evidently, as he took particular notice. Though not There was no message evidently, as he took particular notice. Though not
an implicit believer in the lurid story narrated (or the eggsniping an implicit believer in the lurid story narrated (or the eggsniping
transaction for that matter despite William Tell and the Lazarillo-Don transaction for that matter despite William Tell and the Lazarillo-Don
Cesar de Bazan incident depicted in MARITANA on which occasion the Cesar de Bazan incident depicted in MARITANA on which occasion the
former's ball passed through the latter's hat) having detected a former's ball passed through the latter's hat) having detected a
discrepancy between his name (assuming he was the person he represented discrepancy between his name (assuming he was the person he represented
himself to be and not sailing under false colours after having boxed the himself to be and not sailing under false colours after having boxed the
compass on the strict q.t. somewhere) and the fictitious addressee of the compass on the strict q.t. somewhere) and the fictitious addressee of the
missive which made him nourish some suspicions of our friend's BONA FIDES missive which made him nourish some suspicions of our friend's BONA FIDES
nevertheless it reminded him in a way of a longcherished plan he meant to nevertheless it reminded him in a way of a longcherished plan he meant to
one day realise some Wednesday or Saturday of travelling to London via one day realise some Wednesday or Saturday of travelling to London via
long sea not to say that he had ever travelled extensively to any great long sea not to say that he had ever travelled extensively to any great
extent but he was at heart a born adventurer though by a trick of fate he extent but he was at heart a born adventurer though by a trick of fate he
had consistently remained a landlubber except you call going to Holyhead had consistently remained a landlubber except you call going to Holyhead
which was his longest. Martin Cunningham frequently said he would work a which was his longest. Martin Cunningham frequently said he would work a
pass through Egan but some deuced hitch or other eternally cropped up pass through Egan but some deuced hitch or other eternally cropped up
with the net result that the scheme fell through. But even suppose it did with the net result that the scheme fell through. But even suppose it did
come to planking down the needful and breaking Boyd's heart it was not so come to planking down the needful and breaking Boyd's heart it was not so
dear, purse permitting, a few guineas at the outside considering the fare dear, purse permitting, a few guineas at the outside considering the fare
to Mullingar where he figured on going was five and six, there and back. to Mullingar where he figured on going was five and six, there and back.
The trip would benefit health on account of the bracing ozone and be in The trip would benefit health on account of the bracing ozone and be in
every way thoroughly pleasurable, especially for a chap whose liver was every way thoroughly pleasurable, especially for a chap whose liver was
out of order, seeing the different places along the route, Plymouth, out of order, seeing the different places along the route, Plymouth,
Falmouth, Southampton and so on culminating in an instructive tour of the Falmouth, Southampton and so on culminating in an instructive tour of the
sights of the great metropolis, the spectacle of our modern Babylon where sights of the great metropolis, the spectacle of our modern Babylon where
doubtless he would see the greatest improvement, tower, abbey, wealth of doubtless he would see the greatest improvement, tower, abbey, wealth of
Park lane to renew acquaintance with. Another thing just struck him as a Park lane to renew acquaintance with. Another thing just struck him as a
by no means bad notion was he might have a gaze around on the spot to see by no means bad notion was he might have a gaze around on the spot to see
about trying to make arrangements about a concert tour of summer music about trying to make arrangements about a concert tour of summer music
embracing the most prominent pleasure resorts, Margate with mixed bathing embracing the most prominent pleasure resorts, Margate with mixed bathing
and firstrate hydros and spas, Eastbourne, Scarborough, Margate and so and firstrate hydros and spas, Eastbourne, Scarborough, Margate and so
on, beautiful Bournemouth, the Channel islands and similar bijou spots, on, beautiful Bournemouth, the Channel islands and similar bijou spots,
which might prove highly remunerative. Not, of course, with a hole and which might prove highly remunerative. Not, of course, with a hole and
corner scratch company or local ladies on the job, witness Mrs C P M'Coy corner scratch company or local ladies on the job, witness Mrs C P M'Coy
type lend me your valise and I'll post you the ticket. No, something top type lend me your valise and I'll post you the ticket. No, something top
notch, an all star Irish caste, the Tweedy-Flower grand opera company notch, an all star Irish caste, the Tweedy-Flower grand opera company
with his own legal consort as leading lady as a sort of counterblast to with his own legal consort as leading lady as a sort of counterblast to
the Elster Grimes and Moody-Manners, perfectly simple matter and he was the Elster Grimes and Moody-Manners, perfectly simple matter and he was
quite sanguine of success, providing puffs in the local papers could be quite sanguine of success, providing puffs in the local papers could be
managed by some fellow with a bit of bounce who could pull the managed by some fellow with a bit of bounce who could pull the
indispensable wires and thus combine business with pleasure. But who? indispensable wires and thus combine business with pleasure. But who?
That was the rub.  Also, without being actually positive, it struck him a That was the rub.  Also, without being actually positive, it struck him a
great field was to be opened up in the line of opening up new routes to great field was to be opened up in the line of opening up new routes to
keep pace with the times APROPOS of the Fishguard-Rosslare route which, keep pace with the times APROPOS of the Fishguard-Rosslare route which,
it was mooted, was once more on the TAPIS in the circumlocution it was mooted, was once more on the TAPIS in the circumlocution
departments with the usual quantity of red tape and dillydallying of departments with the usual quantity of red tape and dillydallying of
effete fogeydom and dunderheads generally. A great opportunity there effete fogeydom and dunderheads generally. A great opportunity there
certainly was for push and enterprise to meet the travelling needs of the certainly was for push and enterprise to meet the travelling needs of the
public at large, the average man, i.e. Brown, Robinson and Co. public at large, the average man, i.e. Brown, Robinson and Co.
It was a subject of regret and absurd as well on the face of it and no It was a subject of regret and absurd as well on the face of it and no
small blame to our vaunted society that the man in the street, when the small blame to our vaunted society that the man in the street, when the
system really needed toning up, for the matter of a couple of paltry system really needed toning up, for the matter of a couple of paltry
pounds was debarred from seeing more of the world they lived in instead pounds was debarred from seeing more of the world they lived in instead
of being always and ever cooped up since my old stick-in-the-mud took me of being always and ever cooped up since my old stick-in-the-mud took me
for a wife. After all, hang it, they had their eleven and more humdrum for a wife. After all, hang it, they had their eleven and more humdrum
months of it and merited a radical change of VENUE after the grind of months of it and merited a radical change of VENUE after the grind of
city life in the summertime for choice when dame Nature is at her city life in the summertime for choice when dame Nature is at her
spectacular best constituting nothing short of a new lease of life. There spectacular best constituting nothing short of a new lease of life. There
were equally excellent opportunities for vacationists in the home island, were equally excellent opportunities for vacationists in the home island,
delightful sylvan spots for rejuvenation, offering a plethora of delightful sylvan spots for rejuvenation, offering a plethora of
attractions as well as a bracing tonic for the system in and around attractions as well as a bracing tonic for the system in and around
Dublin and its picturesque environs even, Poulaphouca to which there was Dublin and its picturesque environs even, Poulaphouca to which there was
a steamtram, but also farther away from the madding crowd in Wicklow, a steamtram, but also farther away from the madding crowd in Wicklow,
rightly termed the garden of Ireland, an ideal neighbourhood for elderly rightly termed the garden of Ireland, an ideal neighbourhood for elderly
wheelmen so long as it didn't come down, and in the wilds of Donegal wheelmen so long as it didn't come down, and in the wilds of Donegal
where if report spoke true the COUP D'OEIL was exceedingly grand though where if report spoke true the COUP D'OEIL was exceedingly grand though
the lastnamed locality was not easily getatable so that the influx of the lastnamed locality was not easily getatable so that the influx of
visitors was not as yet all that it might be considering the signal visitors was not as yet all that it might be considering the signal
benefits to be derived from it while Howth with its historic associations benefits to be derived from it while Howth with its historic associations
and otherwise, Silken Thomas, Grace O'Malley, George IV, rhododendrons and otherwise, Silken Thomas, Grace O'Malley, George IV, rhododendrons
several hundred feet above sealevel was a favourite haunt with all sorts several hundred feet above sealevel was a favourite haunt with all sorts
and conditions of men especially in the spring when young men's fancy, and conditions of men especially in the spring when young men's fancy,
though it had its own toll of deaths by falling off the cliffs by design though it had its own toll of deaths by falling off the cliffs by design
or accidentally, usually, by the way, on their left leg, it being only or accidentally, usually, by the way, on their left leg, it being only
about three quarters of an hour's run from the pillar. Because of course about three quarters of an hour's run from the pillar. Because of course
uptodate tourist travelling was as yet merely in its infancy, so to uptodate tourist travelling was as yet merely in its infancy, so to
speak, and the accommodation left much to be desired. Interesting to speak, and the accommodation left much to be desired. Interesting to
fathom it seemed to him from a motive of curiosity, pure and simple, was fathom it seemed to him from a motive of curiosity, pure and simple, was
whether it was the traffic that created the route or viceversa or the two whether it was the traffic that created the route or viceversa or the two
sides in fact. He turned back the other side of the card, picture, and sides in fact. He turned back the other side of the card, picture, and
                (Laughter)                 (Laughter)
QUAKERLYSTER: (A TEMPO) But he that filches from me my good name ... QUAKERLYSTER: (A TEMPO) But he that filches from me my good name ...
STEPHEN: (STRINGENDO) He has hidden his own name, a fair name, William, STEPHEN: (STRINGENDO) He has hidden his own name, a fair name, William,
in the plays, a super here, a clown there, as a painter of old Italy set in the plays, a super here, a clown there, as a painter of old Italy set
his face in a dark corner of his canvas. He has revealed it in the his face in a dark corner of his canvas. He has revealed it in the
sonnets where there is Will in overplus. Like John o'Gaunt his name is sonnets where there is Will in overplus. Like John o'Gaunt his name is
dear to him, as dear as the coat and crest he toadied for, on a bend dear to him, as dear as the coat and crest he toadied for, on a bend
sable a spear or steeled argent, honorificabilitudinitatibus, dearer than sable a spear or steeled argent, honorificabilitudinitatibus, dearer than
his glory of greatest shakescene in the country. What's in a name? That his glory of greatest shakescene in the country. What's in a name? That
is what we ask ourselves in childhood when we write the name that we are is what we ask ourselves in childhood when we write the name that we are
told is ours. A star, a daystar, a firedrake, rose at his birth. It shone told is ours. A star, a daystar, a firedrake, rose at his birth. It shone
by day in the heavens alone, brighter than Venus in the night, and by by day in the heavens alone, brighter than Venus in the night, and by
night it shone over delta in Cassiopeia, the recumbent constellation night it shone over delta in Cassiopeia, the recumbent constellation
which is the signature of his initial among the stars. His eyes watched which is the signature of his initial among the stars. His eyes watched
it, lowlying on the horizon, eastward of the bear, as he walked by the it, lowlying on the horizon, eastward of the bear, as he walked by the
slumberous summer fields at midnight returning from Shottery and from her slumberous summer fields at midnight returning from Shottery and from her
arms. arms.
Both satisfied. I too. Both satisfied. I too.
Don't tell them he was nine years old when it was quenched. Don't tell them he was nine years old when it was quenched.
And from her arms. And from her arms.
Wait to be wooed and won. Ay, meacock. Who will woo you? Wait to be wooed and won. Ay, meacock. Who will woo you?
Read the skies. AUTONTIMORUMENOS. BOUS STEPHANOUMENOS. Where's your Read the skies. AUTONTIMORUMENOS. BOUS STEPHANOUMENOS. Where's your
configuration? Stephen, Stephen, cut the bread even. S. D: SUA DONNA. configuration? Stephen, Stephen, cut the bread even. S. D: SUA DONNA.
GIA: DI LUI. GELINDO RISOLVE DI NON AMARE S. D. GIA: DI LUI. GELINDO RISOLVE DI NON AMARE S. D.
--What is that, Mr Dedalus? the quaker librarian asked. Was it a --What is that, Mr Dedalus? the quaker librarian asked. Was it a
celestial phenomenon? celestial phenomenon?
--A star by night, Stephen said. A pillar of the cloud by day. --A star by night, Stephen said. A pillar of the cloud by day.
What more's to speak? What more's to speak?
Stephen looked on his hat, his stick, his boots. Stephen looked on his hat, his stick, his boots.
STEPHANOS, my crown. My sword. His boots are spoiling the shape of STEPHANOS, my crown. My sword. His boots are spoiling the shape of
my feet. Buy a pair. Holes in my socks. Handkerchief too. my feet. Buy a pair. Holes in my socks. Handkerchief too.
--You make good use of the name, John Eglinton allowed. Your own name --You make good use of the name, John Eglinton allowed. Your own name
is strange enough. I suppose it explains your fantastical humour. is strange enough. I suppose it explains your fantastical humour.
Me, Magee and Mulligan. Me, Magee and Mulligan.
Fabulous artificer. The hawklike man. You flew. Whereto? Fabulous artificer. The hawklike man. You flew. Whereto?
Newhaven-Dieppe, steerage passenger. Paris and back. Lapwing. Icarus. Newhaven-Dieppe, steerage passenger. Paris and back. Lapwing. Icarus.
PATER, AIT. Seabedabbled, fallen, weltering. Lapwing you are. Lapwing be. PATER, AIT. Seabedabbled, fallen, weltering. Lapwing you are. Lapwing be.
Mr Best eagerquietly lifted his book to say: Mr Best eagerquietly lifted his book to say:
--That's very interesting because that brother motive, don't you know, we --That's very interesting because that brother motive, don't you know, we
find also in the old Irish myths. Just what you say. The three brothers find also in the old Irish myths. Just what you say. The three brothers
Shakespeare. In Grimm too, don't you know, the fairytales. The third Shakespeare. In Grimm too, don't you know, the fairytales. The third
brother that always marries the sleeping beauty and wins the best prize. brother that always marries the sleeping beauty and wins the best prize.
Best of Best brothers. Good, better, best. Best of Best brothers. Good, better, best.
The quaker librarian springhalted near. The quaker librarian springhalted near.
--I should like to know, he said, which brother you ... I understand you --I should like to know, he said, which brother you ... I understand you
to suggest there was misconduct with one of the brothers ... But to suggest there was misconduct with one of the brothers ... But
perhaps I am anticipating? perhaps I am anticipating?
He caught himself in the act: looked at all: refrained. He caught himself in the act: looked at all: refrained.
An attendant from the doorway called: An attendant from the doorway called:
--Mr Lyster! Father Dineen wants ... --Mr Lyster! Father Dineen wants ...
--O, Father Dineen! Directly. --O, Father Dineen! Directly.
Swiftly rectly creaking rectly rectly he was rectly gone. Swiftly rectly creaking rectly rectly he was rectly gone.
John Eglinton touched the foil. John Eglinton touched the foil.
--Come, he said. Let us hear what you have to say of Richard and --Come, he said. Let us hear what you have to say of Richard and
Edmund. You kept them for the last, didn't you? Edmund. You kept them for the last, didn't you?
--In asking you to remember those two noble kinsmen nuncle Richie and --In asking you to remember those two noble kinsmen nuncle Richie and
nuncle Edmund, Stephen answered, I feel I am asking too much perhaps. A nuncle Edmund, Stephen answered, I feel I am asking too much perhaps. A
brother is as easily forgotten as an umbrella. brother is as easily forgotten as an umbrella.
Lapwing. Lapwing.
Where is your brother? Apothecaries' hall. My whetstone. Him, then Where is your brother? Apothecaries' hall. My whetstone. Him, then
Cranly, Mulligan: now these. Speech, speech. But act. Act speech. They Cranly, Mulligan: now these. Speech, speech. But act. Act speech. They
mock to try you. Act. Be acted on. mock to try you. Act. Be acted on.
Lapwing. Lapwing.
I am tired of my voice, the voice of Esau. My kingdom for a drink. I am tired of my voice, the voice of Esau. My kingdom for a drink.
On. On.
--You will say those names were already in the chronicles from which he --You will say those names were already in the chronicles from which he
took the stuff of his plays. Why did he take them rather than others? took the stuff of his plays. Why did he take them rather than others?
Richard, a whoreson crookback, misbegotten, makes love to a widowed Richard, a whoreson crookback, misbegotten, makes love to a widowed
Ann (what's in a name?), woos and wins her, a whoreson merry widow. Ann (what's in a name?), woos and wins her, a whoreson merry widow.
Richard the conqueror, third brother, came after William the conquered. Richard the conqueror, third brother, came after William the conquered.
The other four acts of that play hang limply from that first. Of all his The other four acts of that play hang limply from that first. Of all his
kings Richard is the only king unshielded by Shakespeare's reverence, kings Richard is the only king unshielded by Shakespeare's reverence,
the angel of the world. Why is the underplot of KING LEAR in which Edmund the angel of the world. Why is the underplot of KING LEAR in which Edmund
figures lifted out of Sidney's ARCADIA and spatchcocked on to a Celtic figures lifted out of Sidney's ARCADIA and spatchcocked on to a Celtic
legend older than history? legend older than history?
--That was Will's way, John Eglinton defended. We should not now --That was Will's way, John Eglinton defended. We should not now
combine a Norse saga with an excerpt from a novel by George Meredith. combine a Norse saga with an excerpt from a novel by George Meredith.
QUE VOULEZ-VOUS? Moore would say. He puts Bohemia on the seacoast and QUE VOULEZ-VOUS? Moore would say. He puts Bohemia on the seacoast and
makes Ulysses quote Aristotle. makes Ulysses quote Aristotle.
--Why? Stephen answered himself. Because the theme of the false or the --Why? Stephen answered himself. Because the theme of the false or the
usurping or the adulterous brother or all three in one is to Shakespeare, usurping or the adulterous brother or all three in one is to Shakespeare,
what the poor are not, always with him. The note of banishment, what the poor are not, always with him. The note of banishment,
banishment from the heart, banishment from home, sounds uninterruptedly banishment from the heart, banishment from home, sounds uninterruptedly
from THE TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA onward till Prospero breaks his staff, from THE TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA onward till Prospero breaks his staff,
buries it certain fathoms in the earth and drowns his book. It doubles buries it certain fathoms in the earth and drowns his book. It doubles
itself in the middle of his life, reflects itself in another, repeats itself in the middle of his life, reflects itself in another, repeats
itself, protasis, epitasis, catastasis, catastrophe. It repeats itself, protasis, epitasis, catastasis, catastrophe. It repeats
itself again when he is near the grave, when his married daughter itself again when he is near the grave, when his married daughter
off and he read out PANEM DE COELO PRAESTITISTI EIS and Edy and Cissy were off and he read out PANEM DE COELO PRAESTITISTI EIS and Edy and Cissy were
talking about the time all the time and asking her but Gerty could pay talking about the time all the time and asking her but Gerty could pay
them back in their own coin and she just answered with scathing politeness them back in their own coin and she just answered with scathing politeness
when Edy asked her was she heartbroken about her best boy throwing her when Edy asked her was she heartbroken about her best boy throwing her
over. Gerty winced sharply. A brief cold blaze shone from her eyes that over. Gerty winced sharply. A brief cold blaze shone from her eyes that
spoke volumes of scorn immeasurable. It hurt--O yes, it cut deep because spoke volumes of scorn immeasurable. It hurt--O yes, it cut deep because
Edy had her own quiet way of saying things like that she knew would wound Edy had her own quiet way of saying things like that she knew would wound
like the confounded little cat she was. Gerty's lips parted swiftly to like the confounded little cat she was. Gerty's lips parted swiftly to
frame the word but she fought back the sob that rose to her throat, frame the word but she fought back the sob that rose to her throat,
so slim, so flawless, so beautifully moulded it seemed one an artist so slim, so flawless, so beautifully moulded it seemed one an artist
might have dreamed of. She had loved him better than he knew. might have dreamed of. She had loved him better than he knew.
Lighthearted deceiver and fickle like all his sex he would never Lighthearted deceiver and fickle like all his sex he would never
understand what he had meant to her and for an instant there was understand what he had meant to her and for an instant there was
in the blue eyes a quick stinging of tears. Their eyes were in the blue eyes a quick stinging of tears. Their eyes were
probing her mercilessly but with a brave effort she sparkled back in probing her mercilessly but with a brave effort she sparkled back in
sympathy as she glanced at her new conquest for them to see. sympathy as she glanced at her new conquest for them to see.
--O, responded Gerty, quick as lightning, laughing, and the proud head --O, responded Gerty, quick as lightning, laughing, and the proud head
flashed up. I can throw my cap at who I like because it's leap year. flashed up. I can throw my cap at who I like because it's leap year.
Her words rang out crystalclear, more musical than the cooing of the Her words rang out crystalclear, more musical than the cooing of the
ringdove, but they cut the silence icily. There was that in her young ringdove, but they cut the silence icily. There was that in her young
voice that told that she was not a one to be lightly trifled with. voice that told that she was not a one to be lightly trifled with.
As for Mr Reggy with his swank and his bit of money she could just As for Mr Reggy with his swank and his bit of money she could just
chuck him aside as if he was so much filth and never again would she chuck him aside as if he was so much filth and never again would she
cast as much as a second thought on him and tear his silly postcard cast as much as a second thought on him and tear his silly postcard
into a dozen pieces. And if ever after he dared to presume she into a dozen pieces. And if ever after he dared to presume she
could give him one look of measured scorn that would make him could give him one look of measured scorn that would make him
shrivel up on the spot. Miss puny little Edy's countenance fell to shrivel up on the spot. Miss puny little Edy's countenance fell to
no slight extent and Gerty could see by her looking as black as no slight extent and Gerty could see by her looking as black as
thunder that she was simply in a towering rage though she hid it, the thunder that she was simply in a towering rage though she hid it, the
little kinnatt, because that shaft had struck home for her petty jealousy little kinnatt, because that shaft had struck home for her petty jealousy
and they both knew that she was something aloof, apart, in another sphere, and they both knew that she was something aloof, apart, in another sphere,
that she was not of them and never would be and there was somebody else that she was not of them and never would be and there was somebody else
too that knew it and saw it so they could put that in their pipe too that knew it and saw it so they could put that in their pipe
and smoke it. and smoke it.
Edy straightened up baby Boardman to get ready to go and Cissy Edy straightened up baby Boardman to get ready to go and Cissy
tucked in the ball and the spades and buckets and it was high time too tucked in the ball and the spades and buckets and it was high time too
because the sandman was on his way for Master Boardman junior. And because the sandman was on his way for Master Boardman junior. And
Cissy told him too that billy winks was coming and that baby was to go Cissy told him too that billy winks was coming and that baby was to go
deedaw and baby looked just too ducky, laughing up out of his gleeful deedaw and baby looked just too ducky, laughing up out of his gleeful
eyes, and Cissy poked him like that out of fun in his wee fat tummy and eyes, and Cissy poked him like that out of fun in his wee fat tummy and
baby, without as much as by your leave, sent up his compliments to all baby, without as much as by your leave, sent up his compliments to all
and sundry on to his brandnew dribbling bib. and sundry on to his brandnew dribbling bib.
--O my! Puddeny pie! protested Ciss. He has his bib destroyed. --O my! Puddeny pie! protested Ciss. He has his bib destroyed.
The slight CONTRETEMPS claimed her attention but in two twos she set The slight CONTRETEMPS claimed her attention but in two twos she set
that little matter to rights. that little matter to rights.
Gerty stifled a smothered exclamation and gave a nervous cough and Gerty stifled a smothered exclamation and gave a nervous cough and
Edy asked what and she was just going to tell her to catch it while it was Edy asked what and she was just going to tell her to catch it while it was
flying but she was ever ladylike in her deportment so she simply passed it flying but she was ever ladylike in her deportment so she simply passed it
off with consummate tact by saying that that was the benediction because off with consummate tact by saying that that was the benediction because
just then the bell rang out from the steeple over the quiet seashore just then the bell rang out from the steeple over the quiet seashore
because Canon O'Hanlon was up on the altar with the veil that Father because Canon O'Hanlon was up on the altar with the veil that Father
Conroy put round his shoulders giving the benediction with the Blessed Conroy put round his shoulders giving the benediction with the Blessed
Sacrament in his hands. Sacrament in his hands.
How moving the scene there in the gathering twilight, the last glimpse of How moving the scene there in the gathering twilight, the last glimpse of
Erin, the touching chime of those evening bells and at the same time a bat Erin, the touching chime of those evening bells and at the same time a bat
flew forth from the ivied belfry through the dusk, hither, thither, with a flew forth from the ivied belfry through the dusk, hither, thither, with a
tiny lost cry. And she could see far away the lights of the lighthouses so tiny lost cry. And she could see far away the lights of the lighthouses so
picturesque she would have loved to do with a box of paints because it was picturesque she would have loved to do with a box of paints because it was
easier than to make a man and soon the lamplighter would be going his easier than to make a man and soon the lamplighter would be going his
rounds past the presbyterian church grounds and along by shady rounds past the presbyterian church grounds and along by shady
Tritonville avenue where the couples walked and lighting the lamp near her Tritonville avenue where the couples walked and lighting the lamp near her
window where Reggy Wylie used to turn his freewheel like she read in that window where Reggy Wylie used to turn his freewheel like she read in that
book THE LAMPLIGHTER by Miss Cummins, author of MABEL VAUGHAN and book THE LAMPLIGHTER by Miss Cummins, author of MABEL VAUGHAN and
other tales. For Gerty had her dreams that no-one knew of. She loved to other tales. For Gerty had her dreams that no-one knew of. She loved to
read poetry and when she got a keepsake from Bertha Supple of that lovely read poetry and when she got a keepsake from Bertha Supple of that lovely
confession album with the coralpink cover to write her thoughts in she confession album with the coralpink cover to write her thoughts in she
laid it in the drawer of her toilettable which, though it did not err laid it in the drawer of her toilettable which, though it did not err
on the side of luxury, was scrupulously neat and clean. It was there on the side of luxury, was scrupulously neat and clean. It was there
she kept her girlish treasure trove, the tortoiseshell combs, her she kept her girlish treasure trove, the tortoiseshell combs, her
child of Mary badge, the whiterose scent, the eyebrowleine, her child of Mary badge, the whiterose scent, the eyebrowleine, her
alabaster pouncetbox and the ribbons to change when her things came alabaster pouncetbox and the ribbons to change when her things came
home from the wash and there were some beautiful thoughts written home from the wash and there were some beautiful thoughts written
in it in violet ink that she bought in Hely's of Dame Street for in it in violet ink that she bought in Hely's of Dame Street for
she felt that she too could write poetry if she could only express she felt that she too could write poetry if she could only express
herself like that poem that appealed to her so deeply that she had herself like that poem that appealed to her so deeply that she had
copied out of the newspaper she found one evening round the potherbs. ART copied out of the newspaper she found one evening round the potherbs. ART
THOU REAL, MY IDEAL? it was called by Louis J Walsh, Magherafelt, and THOU REAL, MY IDEAL? it was called by Louis J Walsh, Magherafelt, and
after there was something about TWILIGHT, WILT THOU EVER? and ofttimes after there was something about TWILIGHT, WILT THOU EVER? and ofttimes
the beauty of poetry, so sad in its transient loveliness, had misted the beauty of poetry, so sad in its transient loveliness, had misted
her eyes with silent tears for she felt that the years were slipping her eyes with silent tears for she felt that the years were slipping
by for her, one by one, and but for that one shortcoming she knew she by for her, one by one, and but for that one shortcoming she knew she
need fear no competition and that was an accident coming down Dalkey need fear no competition and that was an accident coming down Dalkey
hill and she always tried to conceal it. But it must end, she felt. hill and she always tried to conceal it. But it must end, she felt.
If she saw that magic lure in his eyes there would be no holding If she saw that magic lure in his eyes there would be no holding
back for her. Love laughs at locksmiths. She would make the great back for her. Love laughs at locksmiths. She would make the great
sacrifice. Her every effort would be to share his thoughts. Dearer than sacrifice. Her every effort would be to share his thoughts. Dearer than
the whole world would she be to him and gild his days with happiness. the whole world would she be to him and gild his days with happiness.
There was the allimportant question and she was dying to know was he a There was the allimportant question and she was dying to know was he a
married man or a widower who had lost his wife or some tragedy like the married man or a widower who had lost his wife or some tragedy like the
nobleman with the foreign name from the land of song had to have her put nobleman with the foreign name from the land of song had to have her put
into a madhouse, cruel only to be kind. But even if--what then? Would it into a madhouse, cruel only to be kind. But even if--what then? Would it
make a very great difference? From everything in the least indelicate her make a very great difference? From everything in the least indelicate her
finebred nature instinctively recoiled. She loathed that sort of person, finebred nature instinctively recoiled. She loathed that sort of person,
the fallen women off the accommodation walk beside the Dodder that went the fallen women off the accommodation walk beside the Dodder that went
with the soldiers and coarse men with no respect for a girl's honour, with the soldiers and coarse men with no respect for a girl's honour,
degrading the sex and being taken up to the police station. No, no: not degrading the sex and being taken up to the police station. No, no: not
that. They would be just good friends like a big brother and sister that. They would be just good friends like a big brother and sister
without all that other in spite of the conventions of Society with a big without all that other in spite of the conventions of Society with a big
ess. Perhaps it was an old flame he was in mourning for from the days ess. Perhaps it was an old flame he was in mourning for from the days
beyond recall. She thought she understood. She would try to understand beyond recall. She thought she understood. She would try to understand
him because men were so different. The old love was waiting, waiting him because men were so different. The old love was waiting, waiting
with little white hands stretched out, with blue appealing eyes. Heart with little white hands stretched out, with blue appealing eyes. Heart
of mine! She would follow, her dream of love, the dictates of her heart of mine! She would follow, her dream of love, the dictates of her heart
that told her he was her all in all, the only man in all the world that told her he was her all in all, the only man in all the world
for her for love was the master guide. Nothing else mattered. Come what for her for love was the master guide. Nothing else mattered. Come what
might she would be wild, untrammelled, free. might she would be wild, untrammelled, free.
Canon O'Hanlon put the Blessed Sacrament back into the tabernacle Canon O'Hanlon put the Blessed Sacrament back into the tabernacle
and genuflected and the choir sang LAUDATE DOMINUM OMNES GENTES and and genuflected and the choir sang LAUDATE DOMINUM OMNES GENTES and
then he locked the tabernacle door because the benediction was over and then he locked the tabernacle door because the benediction was over and
Father Conroy handed him his hat to put on and crosscat Edy asked wasn't Father Conroy handed him his hat to put on and crosscat Edy asked wasn't
she coming but Jacky Caffrey called out: she coming but Jacky Caffrey called out:
--O, look, Cissy! --O, look, Cissy!
And they all looked was it sheet lightning but Tommy saw it too over And they all looked was it sheet lightning but Tommy saw it too over
the trees beside the church, blue and then green and purple. the trees beside the church, blue and then green and purple.
--It's fireworks, Cissy Caffrey said. --It's fireworks, Cissy Caffrey said.
And they all ran down the strand to see over the houses and the And they all ran down the strand to see over the houses and the
church, helterskelter, Edy with the pushcar with baby Boardman in it and church, helterskelter, Edy with the pushcar with baby Boardman in it and
Cissy holding Tommy and Jacky by the hand so they wouldn't fall running. Cissy holding Tommy and Jacky by the hand so they wouldn't fall running.
--Come on, Gerty, Cissy called. It's the bazaar fireworks. --Come on, Gerty, Cissy called. It's the bazaar fireworks.
But Gerty was adamant. She had no intention of being at their beck and But Gerty was adamant. She had no intention of being at their beck and
call. If they could run like rossies she could sit so she said she could call. If they could run like rossies she could sit so she said she could
see from where she was. The eyes that were fastened upon her set see from where she was. The eyes that were fastened upon her set
her pulses tingling. She looked at him a moment, meeting his glance, her pulses tingling. She looked at him a moment, meeting his glance,
and a light broke in upon her. Whitehot passion was in that face, passion and a light broke in upon her. Whitehot passion was in that face, passion
silent as the grave, and it had made her his. At last they were left silent as the grave, and it had made her his. At last they were left
alone without the others to pry and pass remarks and she knew he alone without the others to pry and pass remarks and she knew he
could be trusted to the death, steadfast, a sterling man, a man of could be trusted to the death, steadfast, a sterling man, a man of
inflexible honour to his fingertips. His hands and face were working inflexible honour to his fingertips. His hands and face were working
and a tremour went over her. She leaned back far to look up where and a tremour went over her. She leaned back far to look up where
the fireworks were and she caught her knee in her hands so as not the fireworks were and she caught her knee in her hands so as not
to fall back looking up and there was no-one to see only him and to fall back looking up and there was no-one to see only him and
her when she revealed all her graceful beautifully shaped legs like that, her when she revealed all her graceful beautifully shaped legs like that,
supply soft and delicately rounded, and she seemed to hear the panting supply soft and delicately rounded, and she seemed to hear the panting
of his heart, his hoarse breathing, because she knew too about the passion of his heart, his hoarse breathing, because she knew too about the passion
of men like that, hotblooded, because Bertha Supple told her once in dead of men like that, hotblooded, because Bertha Supple told her once in dead
secret and made her swear she'd never about the gentleman lodger that was secret and made her swear she'd never about the gentleman lodger that was
staying with them out of the Congested Districts Board that had pictures staying with them out of the Congested Districts Board that had pictures
cut out of papers of those skirtdancers and highkickers and she said he cut out of papers of those skirtdancers and highkickers and she said he
used to do something not very nice that you could imagine sometimes in used to do something not very nice that you could imagine sometimes in
the bed. But this was altogether different from a thing like that the bed. But this was altogether different from a thing like that
because there was all the difference because she could almost feel because there was all the difference because she could almost feel
him draw her face to his and the first quick hot touch of his him draw her face to his and the first quick hot touch of his
handsome lips. Besides there was absolution so long as you didn't handsome lips. Besides there was absolution so long as you didn't
do the other thing before being married and there ought to be do the other thing before being married and there ought to be
women priests that would understand without your telling out and women priests that would understand without your telling out and
Cissy Caffrey too sometimes had that dreamy kind of dreamy look Cissy Caffrey too sometimes had that dreamy kind of dreamy look
in her eyes so that she too, my dear, and Winny Rippingham so mad in her eyes so that she too, my dear, and Winny Rippingham so mad
about actors' photographs and besides it was on account of that other about actors' photographs and besides it was on account of that other
thing coming on the way it did. thing coming on the way it did.
And Jacky Caffrey shouted to look, there was another and she leaned back And Jacky Caffrey shouted to look, there was another and she leaned back
and the garters were blue to match on account of the transparent and they and the garters were blue to match on account of the transparent and they
all saw it and they all shouted to look, look, there it was and she leaned all saw it and they all shouted to look, look, there it was and she leaned
back ever so far to see the fireworks and something queer was flying back ever so far to see the fireworks and something queer was flying
through the air, a soft thing, to and fro, dark. And she saw a long Roman through the air, a soft thing, to and fro, dark. And she saw a long Roman
candle going up over the trees, up, up, and, in the tense hush, candle going up over the trees, up, up, and, in the tense hush,
they were all breathless with excitement as it went higher and higher they were all breathless with excitement as it went higher and higher
and she had to lean back more and more to look up after it, high, and she had to lean back more and more to look up after it, high,
high, almost out of sight, and her face was suffused with a divine, high, almost out of sight, and her face was suffused with a divine,
an entrancing blush from straining back and he could see her other an entrancing blush from straining back and he could see her other
things too, nainsook knickers, the fabric that caresses the skin, things too, nainsook knickers, the fabric that caresses the skin,
better than those other pettiwidth, the green, four and eleven, better than those other pettiwidth, the green, four and eleven,
on account of being white and she let him and she saw that he saw and then on account of being white and she let him and she saw that he saw and then
it went so high it went out of sight a moment and she was trembling in it went so high it went out of sight a moment and she was trembling in
every limb from being bent so far back that he had a full view every limb from being bent so far back that he had a full view
high up above her knee where no-one ever not even on the swing or wading high up above her knee where no-one ever not even on the swing or wading
and she wasn't ashamed and he wasn't either to look in that immodest way and she wasn't ashamed and he wasn't either to look in that immodest way
like that because he couldn't resist the sight of the wondrous revealment like that because he couldn't resist the sight of the wondrous revealment
half offered like those skirtdancers behaving so immodest before gentlemen half offered like those skirtdancers behaving so immodest before gentlemen
looking and he kept on looking, looking. She would fain have cried to him looking and he kept on looking, looking. She would fain have cried to him
chokingly, held out her snowy slender arms to him to come, to feel his chokingly, held out her snowy slender arms to him to come, to feel his
lips laid on her white brow, the cry of a young girl's love, a little lips laid on her white brow, the cry of a young girl's love, a little
strangled cry, wrung from her, that cry that has rung through the ages. strangled cry, wrung from her, that cry that has rung through the ages.
And then a rocket sprang and bang shot blind blank and O! then the Roman And then a rocket sprang and bang shot blind blank and O! then the Roman
candle burst and it was like a sigh of O! and everyone cried O! O! in candle burst and it was like a sigh of O! and everyone cried O! O! in
raptures and it gushed out of it a stream of rain gold hair threads and raptures and it gushed out of it a stream of rain gold hair threads and
they shed and ah! they were all greeny dewy stars falling with golden, they shed and ah! they were all greeny dewy stars falling with golden,
O so lovely, O, soft, sweet, soft! O so lovely, O, soft, sweet, soft!
Then all melted away dewily in the grey air: all was silent. Ah! She Then all melted away dewily in the grey air: all was silent. Ah! She
glanced at him as she bent forward quickly, a pathetic little glance of glanced at him as she bent forward quickly, a pathetic little glance of
piteous protest, of shy reproach under which he coloured like a girl piteous protest, of shy reproach under which he coloured like a girl
He was leaning back against the rock behind. Leopold Bloom (for it is he) He was leaning back against the rock behind. Leopold Bloom (for it is he)
stands silent, with bowed head before those young guileless eyes. What a stands silent, with bowed head before those young guileless eyes. What a
brute he had been! At it again? A fair unsullied soul had called to him brute he had been! At it again? A fair unsullied soul had called to him
and, wretch that he was, how had he answered? An utter cad he had been! and, wretch that he was, how had he answered? An utter cad he had been!
He of all men! But there was an infinite store of mercy in those eyes, He of all men! But there was an infinite store of mercy in those eyes,
for him too a word of pardon even though he had erred and sinned and for him too a word of pardon even though he had erred and sinned and
wandered. Should a girl tell? No, a thousand times no. That was their wandered. Should a girl tell? No, a thousand times no. That was their
secret, only theirs, alone in the hiding twilight and there was none to secret, only theirs, alone in the hiding twilight and there was none to
know or tell save the little bat that flew so softly through the evening know or tell save the little bat that flew so softly through the evening
to and fro and little bats don't tell. to and fro and little bats don't tell.
Cissy Caffrey whistled, imitating the boys in the football field to show Cissy Caffrey whistled, imitating the boys in the football field to show
what a great person she was: and then she cried: what a great person she was: and then she cried:
--Gerty! Gerty! We're going. Come on. We can see from farther up. --Gerty! Gerty! We're going. Come on. We can see from farther up.
Gerty had an idea, one of love's little ruses. She slipped a hand into Gerty had an idea, one of love's little ruses. She slipped a hand into
her kerchief pocket and took out the wadding and waved in reply of course her kerchief pocket and took out the wadding and waved in reply of course
without letting him and then slipped it back. Wonder if he's too far to. without letting him and then slipped it back. Wonder if he's too far to.
She rose. Was it goodbye? No. She had to go but they would meet again, She rose. Was it goodbye? No. She had to go but they would meet again,
there, and she would dream of that till then, tomorrow, of her dream of there, and she would dream of that till then, tomorrow, of her dream of
yester eve. She drew herself up to her full height. Their souls met in a yester eve. She drew herself up to her full height. Their souls met in a
last lingering glance and the eyes that reached her heart, full of a last lingering glance and the eyes that reached her heart, full of a
strange shining, hung enraptured on her sweet flowerlike face. She half strange shining, hung enraptured on her sweet flowerlike face. She half
smiled at him wanly, a sweet forgiving smile, a smile that verged on smiled at him wanly, a sweet forgiving smile, a smile that verged on
tears, and then they parted. tears, and then they parted.
Slowly, without looking back she went down the uneven strand to Slowly, without looking back she went down the uneven strand to
Cissy, to Edy to Jacky and Tommy Caffrey, to little baby Boardman. It was Cissy, to Edy to Jacky and Tommy Caffrey, to little baby Boardman. It was
darker now and there were stones and bits of wood on the strand and slippy darker now and there were stones and bits of wood on the strand and slippy
seaweed. She walked with a certain quiet dignity characteristic of her but seaweed. She walked with a certain quiet dignity characteristic of her but
with care and very slowly because--because Gerty MacDowell was ... with care and very slowly because--because Gerty MacDowell was ...
Tight boots? No. She's lame! O! Tight boots? No. She's lame! O!
Mr Bloom watched her as she limped away. Poor girl! That's why she's left Mr Bloom watched her as she limped away. Poor girl! That's why she's left
on the shelf and the others did a sprint. Thought something was wrong by on the shelf and the others did a sprint. Thought something was wrong by
the cut of her jib. Jilted beauty. A defect is ten times worse in a woman. the cut of her jib. Jilted beauty. A defect is ten times worse in a woman.
But makes them polite. Glad I didn't know it when she was on show. Hot But makes them polite. Glad I didn't know it when she was on show. Hot
little devil all the same. I wouldn't mind. Curiosity like a nun or a little devil all the same. I wouldn't mind. Curiosity like a nun or a
negress or a girl with glasses. That squinty one is delicate. Near her negress or a girl with glasses. That squinty one is delicate. Near her
monthlies, I expect, makes them feel ticklish. I have such a bad headache monthlies, I expect, makes them feel ticklish. I have such a bad headache
today. Where did I put the letter? Yes, all right. All kinds of crazy today. Where did I put the letter? Yes, all right. All kinds of crazy
longings. Licking pennies. Girl in Tranquilla convent that nun told longings. Licking pennies. Girl in Tranquilla convent that nun told
me liked to smell rock oil. Virgins go mad in the end I suppose. me liked to smell rock oil. Virgins go mad in the end I suppose.
Sister? How many women in Dublin have it today? Martha, she. Something Sister? How many women in Dublin have it today? Martha, she. Something
in the air. That's the moon. But then why don't all women menstruate in the air. That's the moon. But then why don't all women menstruate
at the same time with the same moon, I mean? Depends on the time at the same time with the same moon, I mean? Depends on the time
they were born I suppose. Or all start scratch then get out of step. they were born I suppose. Or all start scratch then get out of step.
Sometimes Molly and Milly together. Anyhow I got the best of that. Sometimes Molly and Milly together. Anyhow I got the best of that.
Damned glad I didn't do it in the bath this morning over her silly Damned glad I didn't do it in the bath this morning over her silly
I will punish you letter. Made up for that tramdriver this morning. I will punish you letter. Made up for that tramdriver this morning.
That gouger M'Coy stopping me to say nothing. And his wife That gouger M'Coy stopping me to say nothing. And his wife
engagement in the country valise, voice like a pickaxe. Thankful for small engagement in the country valise, voice like a pickaxe. Thankful for small
mercies. Cheap too. Yours for the asking. Because they want it themselves. mercies. Cheap too. Yours for the asking. Because they want it themselves.
Their natural craving. Shoals of them every evening poured out of offices. Their natural craving. Shoals of them every evening poured out of offices.
Reserve better. Don't want it they throw it at you. Catch em alive, O. Reserve better. Don't want it they throw it at you. Catch em alive, O.
Pity they can't see themselves. A dream of wellfilled hose. Where was Pity they can't see themselves. A dream of wellfilled hose. Where was
that? Ah, yes. Mutoscope pictures in Capel street: for men only. Peeping that? Ah, yes. Mutoscope pictures in Capel street: for men only. Peeping
Tom. Willy's hat and what the girls did with it. Do they snapshot Tom. Willy's hat and what the girls did with it. Do they snapshot
those girls or is it all a fake? LINGERIE does it. Felt for the those girls or is it all a fake? LINGERIE does it. Felt for the
curves inside her DESHABILLE. Excites them also when they're. I'm all curves inside her DESHABILLE. Excites them also when they're. I'm all
clean come and dirty me. And they like dressing one another for the clean come and dirty me. And they like dressing one another for the
sacrifice. Milly delighted with Molly's new blouse. At first. sacrifice. Milly delighted with Molly's new blouse. At first.
Put them all on to take them all off. Molly. Why I bought her the violet Put them all on to take them all off. Molly. Why I bought her the violet
garters. Us too: the tie he wore, his lovely socks and turnedup trousers. garters. Us too: the tie he wore, his lovely socks and turnedup trousers.
He wore a pair of gaiters the night that first we met. His lovely He wore a pair of gaiters the night that first we met. His lovely
shirt was shining beneath his what? of jet. Say a woman loses a charm with shirt was shining beneath his what? of jet. Say a woman loses a charm with
every pin she takes out. Pinned together. O, Mairy lost the pin of her. every pin she takes out. Pinned together. O, Mairy lost the pin of her.
Dressed up to the nines for somebody. Fashion part of their charm. Just Dressed up to the nines for somebody. Fashion part of their charm. Just
changes when you're on the track of the secret. Except the east: Mary, changes when you're on the track of the secret. Except the east: Mary,
Martha: now as then. No reasonable offer refused. She wasn't in a hurry Martha: now as then. No reasonable offer refused. She wasn't in a hurry
either. Always off to a fellow when they are. They never forget an either. Always off to a fellow when they are. They never forget an
appointment. Out on spec probably. They believe in chance because like appointment. Out on spec probably. They believe in chance because like
themselves. And the others inclined to give her an odd dig. Girl friends themselves. And the others inclined to give her an odd dig. Girl friends
at school, arms round each other's necks or with ten fingers locked, at school, arms round each other's necks or with ten fingers locked,
kissing and whispering secrets about nothing in the convent garden. Nuns kissing and whispering secrets about nothing in the convent garden. Nuns
with whitewashed faces, cool coifs and their rosaries going up and down, with whitewashed faces, cool coifs and their rosaries going up and down,
vindictive too for what they can't get. Barbed wire. Be sure now and write vindictive too for what they can't get. Barbed wire. Be sure now and write
to me. And I'll write to you. Now won't you? Molly and Josie Powell. Till to me. And I'll write to you. Now won't you? Molly and Josie Powell. Till
Mr Right comes along, then meet once in a blue moon. TABLEAU! O, look Mr Right comes along, then meet once in a blue moon. TABLEAU! O, look
who it is for the love of God! How are you at all? What have you been who it is for the love of God! How are you at all? What have you been
doing with yourself? Kiss and delighted to, kiss, to see you. Picking doing with yourself? Kiss and delighted to, kiss, to see you. Picking
holes in each other's appearance. You're looking splendid. Sister souls. holes in each other's appearance. You're looking splendid. Sister souls.
Showing their teeth at one another. How many have you left? Wouldn't lend Showing their teeth at one another. How many have you left? Wouldn't lend
each other a pinch of salt. each other a pinch of salt.
Ah! Ah!
Devils they are when that's coming on them. Dark devilish appearance. Devils they are when that's coming on them. Dark devilish appearance.
Molly often told me feel things a ton weight. Scratch the sole of Molly often told me feel things a ton weight. Scratch the sole of
my foot. O that way! O, that's exquisite! Feel it myself too. Good to rest my foot. O that way! O, that's exquisite! Feel it myself too. Good to rest
once in a way. Wonder if it's bad to go with them then. Safe in one way. once in a way. Wonder if it's bad to go with them then. Safe in one way.
Turns milk, makes fiddlestrings snap. Something about withering plants I Turns milk, makes fiddlestrings snap. Something about withering plants I
read in a garden. Besides they say if the flower withers she wears she's a read in a garden. Besides they say if the flower withers she wears she's a
flirt. All are. Daresay she felt 1. When you feel like that you often meet flirt. All are. Daresay she felt 1. When you feel like that you often meet
--There was every indication they would arrive at that, he, Bloom, said. --There was every indication they would arrive at that, he, Bloom, said.
--Who? the other, whose hand by the way was hurt, said. --Who? the other, whose hand by the way was hurt, said.
One morning you would open the paper, the cabman affirmed, and read: One morning you would open the paper, the cabman affirmed, and read:
RETURN OF PARNELL. He bet them what they liked. A Dublin fusilier was in RETURN OF PARNELL. He bet them what they liked. A Dublin fusilier was in
that shelter one night and said he saw him in South Africa. Pride it was that shelter one night and said he saw him in South Africa. Pride it was
killed him. He ought to have done away with himself or lain low for a killed him. He ought to have done away with himself or lain low for a
time after committee room no 15 until he was his old self again with no- time after committee room no 15 until he was his old self again with no-
one to point a finger at him. Then they would all to a man have gone down one to point a finger at him. Then they would all to a man have gone down
on their marrowbones to him to come back when he had recovered his on their marrowbones to him to come back when he had recovered his
senses. Dead he wasn't. Simply absconded somewhere. The coffin they senses. Dead he wasn't. Simply absconded somewhere. The coffin they
brought over was full of stones. He changed his name to De Wet, the Boer brought over was full of stones. He changed his name to De Wet, the Boer
general. He made a mistake to fight the priests. And so forth and so on. general. He made a mistake to fight the priests. And so forth and so on.
All the same Bloom (properly so dubbed) was rather surprised at their All the same Bloom (properly so dubbed) was rather surprised at their
memories for in nine cases out of ten it was a case of tarbarrels and not memories for in nine cases out of ten it was a case of tarbarrels and not
singly but in their thousands and then complete oblivion because it was singly but in their thousands and then complete oblivion because it was
twenty odd years. Highly unlikely of course there was even a shadow of twenty odd years. Highly unlikely of course there was even a shadow of
truth in the stones and, even supposing, he thought a return highly truth in the stones and, even supposing, he thought a return highly
inadvisable, all things considered. Something evidently riled them in his inadvisable, all things considered. Something evidently riled them in his
death. Either he petered out too tamely of acute pneumonia just when his death. Either he petered out too tamely of acute pneumonia just when his
various different political arrangements were nearing completion or various different political arrangements were nearing completion or
whether it transpired he owed his death to his having neglected to change whether it transpired he owed his death to his having neglected to change
his boots and clothes-after a wetting when a cold resulted and failing to his boots and clothes-after a wetting when a cold resulted and failing to
consult a specialist he being confined to his room till he eventually consult a specialist he being confined to his room till he eventually
died of it amid widespread regret before a fortnight was at an end or died of it amid widespread regret before a fortnight was at an end or
quite possibly they were distressed to find the job was taken out of quite possibly they were distressed to find the job was taken out of
their hands. Of course nobody being acquainted with his movements even their hands. Of course nobody being acquainted with his movements even
before there was absolutely no clue as to his whereabouts which were before there was absolutely no clue as to his whereabouts which were
decidedly of the ALICE, WHERE ART THOU order even prior to his starting decidedly of the ALICE, WHERE ART THOU order even prior to his starting
to go under several aliases such as Fox and Stewart so the remark which to go under several aliases such as Fox and Stewart so the remark which
emanated from friend cabby might be within the bounds of possibility. emanated from friend cabby might be within the bounds of possibility.
Naturally then it would prey on his mind as a born leader of men which Naturally then it would prey on his mind as a born leader of men which
undoubtedly he was and a commanding figure, a sixfooter or at any rate undoubtedly he was and a commanding figure, a sixfooter or at any rate
five feet ten or eleven in his stockinged feet, whereas Messrs So and So five feet ten or eleven in his stockinged feet, whereas Messrs So and So
who, though they weren't even a patch on the former man, ruled the roost who, though they weren't even a patch on the former man, ruled the roost
after their redeeming features were very few and far between. It after their redeeming features were very few and far between. It
certainly pointed a moral, the idol with feet of clay, and then certainly pointed a moral, the idol with feet of clay, and then
seventytwo of his trusty henchmen rounding on him with mutual seventytwo of his trusty henchmen rounding on him with mutual
mudslinging. And the identical same with murderers. You had to come back. mudslinging. And the identical same with murderers. You had to come back.
That haunting sense kind of drew you. To show the understudy in the title That haunting sense kind of drew you. To show the understudy in the title
ROLE how to. He saw him once on the auspicious occasion when they broke ROLE how to. He saw him once on the auspicious occasion when they broke
up the type in the INSUPPRESSIBLE or was it UNITED IRELAND, a privilege up the type in the INSUPPRESSIBLE or was it UNITED IRELAND, a privilege
he keenly appreciated, and, in point of fact, handed him his silk hat he keenly appreciated, and, in point of fact, handed him his silk hat
when it was knocked off and he said THANK YOU, excited as he undoubtedly when it was knocked off and he said THANK YOU, excited as he undoubtedly
was under his frigid exterior notwithstanding the little misadventure was under his frigid exterior notwithstanding the little misadventure
mentioned between the cup and the lip: what's bred in the bone. Still as mentioned between the cup and the lip: what's bred in the bone. Still as
regards return. You were a lucky dog if they didn't set the terrier at regards return. You were a lucky dog if they didn't set the terrier at
you directly you got back. Then a lot of shillyshally usually followed, you directly you got back. Then a lot of shillyshally usually followed,
Tom for and Dick and Harry against. And then, number one, you came up Tom for and Dick and Harry against. And then, number one, you came up
against the man in possession and had to produce your credentials like against the man in possession and had to produce your credentials like
the claimant in the Tichborne case, Roger Charles Tichborne, BELLA was the claimant in the Tichborne case, Roger Charles Tichborne, BELLA was
the boat's name to the best of his recollection he, the heir, went down the boat's name to the best of his recollection he, the heir, went down
in as the evidence went to show and there was a tattoo mark too in Indian in as the evidence went to show and there was a tattoo mark too in Indian
ink, lord Bellew was it, as he might very easily have picked up the ink, lord Bellew was it, as he might very easily have picked up the
details from some pal on board ship and then, when got up to tally with details from some pal on board ship and then, when got up to tally with
the description given, introduce himself with: EXCUSE ME, MY NAME IS SO the description given, introduce himself with: EXCUSE ME, MY NAME IS SO
AND SO or some such commonplace remark. A more prudent course, as Bloom AND SO or some such commonplace remark. A more prudent course, as Bloom
said to the not over effusive, in fact like the distinguished personage said to the not over effusive, in fact like the distinguished personage
under discussion beside him, would have been to sound the lie of the land under discussion beside him, would have been to sound the lie of the land
first. first.
--That bitch, that English whore, did for him, the shebeen proprietor --That bitch, that English whore, did for him, the shebeen proprietor
commented. She put the first nail in his coffin. commented. She put the first nail in his coffin.
--Fine lump of a woman all the same, the SOI-DISANT townclerk Henry --Fine lump of a woman all the same, the SOI-DISANT townclerk Henry
Campbell remarked, and plenty of her. She loosened many a man's thighs. I Campbell remarked, and plenty of her. She loosened many a man's thighs. I
seen her picture in a barber's. The husband was a captain or an officer. seen her picture in a barber's. The husband was a captain or an officer.
--Ay, Skin-the-Goat amusingly added, he was and a cottonball one. --Ay, Skin-the-Goat amusingly added, he was and a cottonball one.
This gratuitous contribution of a humorous character occasioned a fair This gratuitous contribution of a humorous character occasioned a fair
amount of laughter among his ENTOURAGE. As regards Bloom he, without the amount of laughter among his ENTOURAGE. As regards Bloom he, without the
faintest suspicion of a smile, merely gazed in the direction of the door faintest suspicion of a smile, merely gazed in the direction of the door
and reflected upon the historic story which had aroused extraordinary and reflected upon the historic story which had aroused extraordinary
interest at the time when the facts, to make matters worse, were made interest at the time when the facts, to make matters worse, were made
public with the usual affectionate letters that passed between them full public with the usual affectionate letters that passed between them full
of sweet nothings. First it was strictly Platonic till nature intervened of sweet nothings. First it was strictly Platonic till nature intervened
and an attachment sprang up between them till bit by bit matters came to and an attachment sprang up between them till bit by bit matters came to
a climax and the matter became the talk of the town till the staggering a climax and the matter became the talk of the town till the staggering
blow came as a welcome intelligence to not a few evildisposed, however, blow came as a welcome intelligence to not a few evildisposed, however,
who were resolved upon encompassing his downfall though the thing was who were resolved upon encompassing his downfall though the thing was
public property all along though not to anything like the sensational public property all along though not to anything like the sensational
extent that it subsequently blossomed into. Since their names were extent that it subsequently blossomed into. Since their names were
coupled, though, since he was her declared favourite, where was the coupled, though, since he was her declared favourite, where was the
particular necessity to proclaim it to the rank and file from the particular necessity to proclaim it to the rank and file from the
housetops, the fact, namely, that he had shared her bedroom which came housetops, the fact, namely, that he had shared her bedroom which came
out in the witnessbox on oath when a thrill went through the packed court out in the witnessbox on oath when a thrill went through the packed court
literally electrifying everybody in the shape of witnesses swearing to literally electrifying everybody in the shape of witnesses swearing to
having witnessed him on such and such a particular date in the act of having witnessed him on such and such a particular date in the act of
scrambling out of an upstairs apartment with the assistance of a ladder scrambling out of an upstairs apartment with the assistance of a ladder
in night apparel, having gained admittance in the same fashion, a fact in night apparel, having gained admittance in the same fashion, a fact
the weeklies, addicted to the lubric a little, simply coined shoals of the weeklies, addicted to the lubric a little, simply coined shoals of
money out of. Whereas the simple fact of the case was it was simply a money out of. Whereas the simple fact of the case was it was simply a
case of the husband not being up to the scratch, with nothing in common case of the husband not being up to the scratch, with nothing in common
between them beyond the name, and then a real man arriving on the scene, between them beyond the name, and then a real man arriving on the scene,
strong to the verge of weakness, falling a victim to her siren charms and strong to the verge of weakness, falling a victim to her siren charms and
forgetting home ties, the usual sequel, to bask in the loved one's forgetting home ties, the usual sequel, to bask in the loved one's
smiles. The eternal question of the life connubial, needless to say, smiles. The eternal question of the life connubial, needless to say,
cropped up. Can real love, supposing there happens to be another chap in cropped up. Can real love, supposing there happens to be another chap in
the case, exist between married folk? Poser. Though it was no concern of the case, exist between married folk? Poser. Though it was no concern of
theirs absolutely if he regarded her with affection, carried away by a theirs absolutely if he regarded her with affection, carried away by a
wave of folly. A magnificent specimen of manhood he was truly augmented wave of folly. A magnificent specimen of manhood he was truly augmented
obviously by gifts of a high order, as compared with the other military obviously by gifts of a high order, as compared with the other military
supernumerary that is (who was just the usual everyday FAREWELL, MY supernumerary that is (who was just the usual everyday FAREWELL, MY
GALLANT CAPTAIN kind of an individual in the light dragoons, the l8th GALLANT CAPTAIN kind of an individual in the light dragoons, the l8th
hussars to be accurate) and inflammable doubtless (the fallen leader, hussars to be accurate) and inflammable doubtless (the fallen leader,
that is, not the other) in his own peculiar way which she of course, that is, not the other) in his own peculiar way which she of course,
woman, quickly perceived as highly likely to carve his way to fame which woman, quickly perceived as highly likely to carve his way to fame which
he almost bid fair to do till the priests and ministers of the gospel as he almost bid fair to do till the priests and ministers of the gospel as
a whole, his erstwhile staunch adherents, and his beloved evicted tenants a whole, his erstwhile staunch adherents, and his beloved evicted tenants
for whom he had done yeoman service in the rural parts of the country by for whom he had done yeoman service in the rural parts of the country by
taking up the cudgels on their behalf in a way that exceeded their most taking up the cudgels on their behalf in a way that exceeded their most
sanguine expectations, very effectually cooked his matrimonial goose, sanguine expectations, very effectually cooked his matrimonial goose,
thereby heaping coals of fire on his head much in the same way as the thereby heaping coals of fire on his head much in the same way as the
fabled ass's kick. Looking back now in a retrospective kind of fabled ass's kick. Looking back now in a retrospective kind of
arrangement all seemed a kind of dream. And then coming back was the arrangement all seemed a kind of dream. And then coming back was the
worst thing you ever did because it went without saying you would feel worst thing you ever did because it went without saying you would feel
out of place as things always moved with the times. Why, as he reflected, out of place as things always moved with the times. Why, as he reflected,
Irishtown strand, a locality he had not been in for quite a number of Irishtown strand, a locality he had not been in for quite a number of
years looked different somehow since, as it happened, he went to reside years looked different somehow since, as it happened, he went to reside
on the north side. North or south, however, it was just the wellknown on the north side. North or south, however, it was just the wellknown
case of hot passion, pure and simple, upsetting the applecart with a case of hot passion, pure and simple, upsetting the applecart with a
vengeance and just bore out the very thing he was saying as she also was vengeance and just bore out the very thing he was saying as she also was
Spanish or half so, types that wouldn't do things by halves, passionate Spanish or half so, types that wouldn't do things by halves, passionate
abandon of the south, casting every shred of decency to the winds. abandon of the south, casting every shred of decency to the winds.
--Just bears out what I was saying, he, with glowing bosom said to --Just bears out what I was saying, he, with glowing bosom said to
Stephen, about blood and the sun. And, if I don't greatly mistake she was Stephen, about blood and the sun. And, if I don't greatly mistake she was
Spanish too. Spanish too.
--The king of Spain's daughter, Stephen answered, adding something or --The king of Spain's daughter, Stephen answered, adding something or
other rather muddled about farewell and adieu to you Spanish onions and other rather muddled about farewell and adieu to you Spanish onions and
Carefully avoiding a book in his pocket SWEETS OF, which reminded him by Carefully avoiding a book in his pocket SWEETS OF, which reminded him by
the by of that Cap l street library book out of date, he took out his the by of that Cap l street library book out of date, he took out his
pocketbook and, turning over the various contents it contained rapidly pocketbook and, turning over the various contents it contained rapidly
finally he. finally he.
--Do you consider, by the by, he said, thoughtfully selecting a faded --Do you consider, by the by, he said, thoughtfully selecting a faded
photo which he laid on the table, that a Spanish type? photo which he laid on the table, that a Spanish type?
Stephen, obviously addressed, looked down on the photo showing a large Stephen, obviously addressed, looked down on the photo showing a large
sized lady with her fleshy charms on evidence in an open fashion as she sized lady with her fleshy charms on evidence in an open fashion as she
was in the full bloom of womanhood in evening dress cut ostentatiously was in the full bloom of womanhood in evening dress cut ostentatiously
low for the occasion to give a liberal display of bosom, with more than low for the occasion to give a liberal display of bosom, with more than
vision of breasts, her full lips parted and some perfect teeth, standing vision of breasts, her full lips parted and some perfect teeth, standing
near, ostensibly with gravity, a piano on the rest of which was IN OLD near, ostensibly with gravity, a piano on the rest of which was IN OLD
MADRID, a ballad, pretty in its way, which was then all the vogue. Her MADRID, a ballad, pretty in its way, which was then all the vogue. Her
(the lady's) eyes, dark, large, looked at Stephen, about to smile about (the lady's) eyes, dark, large, looked at Stephen, about to smile about
something to be admired, Lafayette of Westmoreland street, Dublin's something to be admired, Lafayette of Westmoreland street, Dublin's
premier photographic artist, being responsible for the esthetic premier photographic artist, being responsible for the esthetic
execution. execution.
--Mrs Bloom, my wife the PRIMA DONNA Madam Marion Tweedy, Bloom --Mrs Bloom, my wife the PRIMA DONNA Madam Marion Tweedy, Bloom
indicated. Taken a few years since. In or about ninety six. Very like her indicated. Taken a few years since. In or about ninety six. Very like her
then. then.
Beside the young man he looked also at the photo of the lady now his 1440 Beside the young man he looked also at the photo of the lady now his 1440
legal wife who, he intimated, was the accomplished daughter of Major legal wife who, he intimated, was the accomplished daughter of Major
Brian Tweedy and displayed at an early age remarkable proficiency as a Brian Tweedy and displayed at an early age remarkable proficiency as a
singer having even made her bow to the public when her years numbered singer having even made her bow to the public when her years numbered
barely sweet sixteen. As for the face it was a speaking likeness in barely sweet sixteen. As for the face it was a speaking likeness in
expression but it did not do justice to her figure which came in for a expression but it did not do justice to her figure which came in for a
lot of notice usually and which did not come out to the best advantage in lot of notice usually and which did not come out to the best advantage in
that getup. She could without difficulty, he said, have posed for the that getup. She could without difficulty, he said, have posed for the
ensemble, not to dwell on certain opulent curves of the. He dwelt, being ensemble, not to dwell on certain opulent curves of the. He dwelt, being
a bit of an artist in his spare time, on the female form in general a bit of an artist in his spare time, on the female form in general
developmentally because, as it so happened, no later than that afternoon developmentally because, as it so happened, no later than that afternoon
he had seen those Grecian statues, 1450 perfectly developed as works of he had seen those Grecian statues, 1450 perfectly developed as works of
art, in the National Museum. Marble could give the original, shoulders, art, in the National Museum. Marble could give the original, shoulders,
back, all the symmetry, all the rest. Yes, puritanisme, it does though back, all the symmetry, all the rest. Yes, puritanisme, it does though
Saint Joseph's sovereign thievery alors (Bandez!) Figne toi trop. Whereas Saint Joseph's sovereign thievery alors (Bandez!) Figne toi trop. Whereas
no photo could because it simply wasn't art in a word. no photo could because it simply wasn't art in a word.
The spirit moving him he would much have liked to follow Jack Tar's good The spirit moving him he would much have liked to follow Jack Tar's good
example and leave the likeness there for a very few minutes to speak for example and leave the likeness there for a very few minutes to speak for
itself on the plea he so that the other could drink in the beauty for itself on the plea he so that the other could drink in the beauty for
himself, her stage presence being, frankly, a treat in itself which the himself, her stage presence being, frankly, a treat in itself which the
camera could not at all do justice to. But it was scarcely professional camera could not at all do justice to. But it was scarcely professional
etiquette so. Though it was a warm pleasant sort of a night now yet etiquette so. Though it was a warm pleasant sort of a night now yet
wonderfully cool for the season considering, for sunshine after storm. wonderfully cool for the season considering, for sunshine after storm.
And he did feel a kind of need there and then to follow suit like a kind And he did feel a kind of need there and then to follow suit like a kind
of inward voice and satisfy a possible need by moving a motion. of inward voice and satisfy a possible need by moving a motion.
Nevertheless he sat tight just viewing the slightly soiled photo creased Nevertheless he sat tight just viewing the slightly soiled photo creased
by opulent curves, none the worse for wear however, and looked away by opulent curves, none the worse for wear however, and looked away
thoughtfully with the intention of not further increasing the other's thoughtfully with the intention of not further increasing the other's
possible embarrassment while gauging her symmetry of heaving EMBONPOINT. possible embarrassment while gauging her symmetry of heaving EMBONPOINT.
In fact the slight soiling was only an added charm like the case of linen In fact the slight soiling was only an added charm like the case of linen
slightly soiled, good as new, much better in fact with the starch out. slightly soiled, good as new, much better in fact with the starch out.
Suppose she was gone when he? I looked for the lamp which she told me Suppose she was gone when he? I looked for the lamp which she told me
came into his mind but merely as a passing fancy of his because he then came into his mind but merely as a passing fancy of his because he then
recollected the morning littered bed etcetera and the book about Ruby recollected the morning littered bed etcetera and the book about Ruby
with met him pike hoses (SIC) in it which must have fell down with met him pike hoses (SIC) in it which must have fell down
sufficiently appropriately beside the domestic chamberpot with apologies sufficiently appropriately beside the domestic chamberpot with apologies
to Lindley Murray. to Lindley Murray.
The vicinity of the young man he certainly relished, educated, DISTINGUE The vicinity of the young man he certainly relished, educated, DISTINGUE
and impulsive into the bargain, far and away the pick of the bunch though and impulsive into the bargain, far and away the pick of the bunch though
you wouldn't think he had it in him yet you would. Besides he said the you wouldn't think he had it in him yet you would. Besides he said the
picture was handsome which, say what you like, it was though at the picture was handsome which, say what you like, it was though at the
moment she was distinctly stouter. And why not? An awful lot of moment she was distinctly stouter. And why not? An awful lot of
makebelieve went on about that sort of thing involving a lifelong slur makebelieve went on about that sort of thing involving a lifelong slur
with the usual splash page of gutterpress about the same old matrimonial with the usual splash page of gutterpress about the same old matrimonial
tangle alleging misconduct with professional golfer or the newest stage tangle alleging misconduct with professional golfer or the newest stage
favourite instead of being honest and aboveboard about the whole favourite instead of being honest and aboveboard about the whole
business. How they were fated to meet and an attachment sprang up between business. How they were fated to meet and an attachment sprang up between
the two so that their names were coupled in the public eye was told in the two so that their names were coupled in the public eye was told in
court with letters containing the habitual mushy and compromising court with letters containing the habitual mushy and compromising
expressions leaving no loophole to show that they openly cohabited two or expressions leaving no loophole to show that they openly cohabited two or
three times a week at some wellknown seaside hotel and relations, when three times a week at some wellknown seaside hotel and relations, when
the thing ran its normal course, became in due course intimate. Then the the thing ran its normal course, became in due course intimate. Then the
decree NISI and the King's proctor tries to show cause why and, he decree NISI and the King's proctor tries to show cause why and, he
failing to quash it, NISI was made absolute. But as for that the two failing to quash it, NISI was made absolute. But as for that the two
misdemeanants, wrapped up as they largely were in one another, could misdemeanants, wrapped up as they largely were in one another, could
safely afford to ignore it as they very largely did till the matter was safely afford to ignore it as they very largely did till the matter was
put in the hands of a solicitor who filed a petition for the party put in the hands of a solicitor who filed a petition for the party
wronged in due course. He, B, enjoyed the distinction of being close to wronged in due course. He, B, enjoyed the distinction of being close to
Erin's uncrowned king in the flesh when the thing occurred on the Erin's uncrowned king in the flesh when the thing occurred on the
historic FRACAS when the fallen leader's, who notoriously stuck to his historic FRACAS when the fallen leader's, who notoriously stuck to his
guns to the last drop even when clothed in the mantle of adultery, guns to the last drop even when clothed in the mantle of adultery,
(leader's) trusty henchmen to the number of ten or a dozen or possibly (leader's) trusty henchmen to the number of ten or a dozen or possibly
even more than that penetrated into the printing works of the even more than that penetrated into the printing works of the
INSUPPRESSIBLE or no it was UNITED IRELAND (a by no means by the by INSUPPRESSIBLE or no it was UNITED IRELAND (a by no means by the by
appropriate appellative) and broke up the typecases with hammers or appropriate appellative) and broke up the typecases with hammers or
something like that all on account of some scurrilous effusions from the something like that all on account of some scurrilous effusions from the
facile pens of the O'Brienite scribes at the usual mudslinging occupation facile pens of the O'Brienite scribes at the usual mudslinging occupation
reflecting on the erstwhile tribune's private morals. Though palpably a reflecting on the erstwhile tribune's private morals. Though palpably a
radically altered man he was still a commanding figure though carelessly radically altered man he was still a commanding figure though carelessly
garbed as usual with that look of settled purpose which went a long way garbed as usual with that look of settled purpose which went a long way
with the shillyshallyers till they discovered to their vast discomfiture with the shillyshallyers till they discovered to their vast discomfiture
that their idol had feet of clay after placing him upon a pedestal which that their idol had feet of clay after placing him upon a pedestal which
she, however, was the first to perceive. As those were particularly hot she, however, was the first to perceive. As those were particularly hot
times in the general hullaballoo Bloom sustained a minor injury from a times in the general hullaballoo Bloom sustained a minor injury from a
nasty prod of some chap's elbow in the crowd that of course congregated nasty prod of some chap's elbow in the crowd that of course congregated
lodging some place about the pit of the stomach, fortunately not of a lodging some place about the pit of the stomach, fortunately not of a
grave character. His hat (Parnell's) a silk one was inadvertently knocked grave character. His hat (Parnell's) a silk one was inadvertently knocked
off and, as a matter of strict history, Bloom was the man who picked it off and, as a matter of strict history, Bloom was the man who picked it
up in the crush after witnessing the occurrence meaning to return it to up in the crush after witnessing the occurrence meaning to return it to
him (and return it to him he did with the utmost celerity) who panting him (and return it to him he did with the utmost celerity) who panting
and hatless and whose thoughts were miles away from his hat at the time and hatless and whose thoughts were miles away from his hat at the time
all the same being a gentleman born with a stake in the country he, as a all the same being a gentleman born with a stake in the country he, as a
matter of fact, having gone into it more for the kudos of the thing than matter of fact, having gone into it more for the kudos of the thing than
anything else, what's bred in the bone instilled into him in infancy at anything else, what's bred in the bone instilled into him in infancy at
his mother's knee in the shape of knowing what good form was came out at his mother's knee in the shape of knowing what good form was came out at
once because he turned round to the donor and thanked him with perfect once because he turned round to the donor and thanked him with perfect
APLOMB, saying: THANK YOU, SIR, though in a very different tone of voice APLOMB, saying: THANK YOU, SIR, though in a very different tone of voice
from the ornament of the legal profession whose headgear Bloom also set from the ornament of the legal profession whose headgear Bloom also set
to rights earlier in the course of the day, history repeating itself with to rights earlier in the course of the day, history repeating itself with
a difference, after the burial of a mutual friend when they had left him a difference, after the burial of a mutual friend when they had left him
alone in his glory after the grim task of having committed his remains to alone in his glory after the grim task of having committed his remains to
the grave. the grave.
On the other hand what incensed him more inwardly was the blatant jokes On the other hand what incensed him more inwardly was the blatant jokes
of the cabman and so on who passed it all off as a jest, laughing 1530 of the cabman and so on who passed it all off as a jest, laughing 1530
immoderately, pretending to understand everything, the why and the immoderately, pretending to understand everything, the why and the
wherefore, and in reality not knowing their own minds, it being a case wherefore, and in reality not knowing their own minds, it being a case
for the two parties themselves unless it ensued that the legitimate for the two parties themselves unless it ensued that the legitimate
husband happened to be a party to it owing to some anonymous letter from husband happened to be a party to it owing to some anonymous letter from
the usual boy Jones, who happened to come across them at the crucial the usual boy Jones, who happened to come across them at the crucial
moment in a loving position locked in one another's arms, drawing moment in a loving position locked in one another's arms, drawing
attention to their illicit proceedings and leading up to a domestic attention to their illicit proceedings and leading up to a domestic
rumpus and the erring fair one begging forgiveness of her lord and master rumpus and the erring fair one begging forgiveness of her lord and master
upon her knees and promising to sever the connection and not receive his upon her knees and promising to sever the connection and not receive his
visits any more if only the aggrieved husband would overlook the matter visits any more if only the aggrieved husband would overlook the matter
and let bygones be bygones with tears in her eyes though possibly with and let bygones be bygones with tears in her eyes though possibly with
her tongue in her fair cheek at the same time as quite possibly there her tongue in her fair cheek at the same time as quite possibly there
were several others. He personally, being of a sceptical bias, believed were several others. He personally, being of a sceptical bias, believed
and didn't make the smallest bones about saying so either that man or men and didn't make the smallest bones about saying so either that man or men
in the plural were always hanging around on the waiting list about a in the plural were always hanging around on the waiting list about a
lady, even supposing she was the best wife in the world and they got on lady, even supposing she was the best wife in the world and they got on
fairly well together for the sake of argument, when, neglecting her fairly well together for the sake of argument, when, neglecting her
duties, she chose to be tired of wedded life and was on for a little duties, she chose to be tired of wedded life and was on for a little
flutter in polite debauchery to press their attentions on her with flutter in polite debauchery to press their attentions on her with
improper intent, the upshot being that her affections centred on another, improper intent, the upshot being that her affections centred on another,
the cause of many LIAISONS between still attractive married women getting the cause of many LIAISONS between still attractive married women getting
on for fair and forty and younger men, no doubt as several famous cases on for fair and forty and younger men, no doubt as several famous cases
of feminine infatuation proved up to the hilt. of feminine infatuation proved up to the hilt.
It was a thousand pities a young fellow, blessed with an allowance of It was a thousand pities a young fellow, blessed with an allowance of
brains as his neighbour obviously was, should waste his valuable time brains as his neighbour obviously was, should waste his valuable time
with profligate women who might present him with a nice dose to last him with profligate women who might present him with a nice dose to last him
his lifetime. In the nature of single blessedness he would one day take his lifetime. In the nature of single blessedness he would one day take
unto himself a wife when Miss Right came on the scene but in the interim unto himself a wife when Miss Right came on the scene but in the interim
ladies' society was a CONDITIO SINE QUA NON though he had the gravest ladies' society was a CONDITIO SINE QUA NON though he had the gravest
possible doubts, not that he wanted in the smallest to pump Stephen about possible doubts, not that he wanted in the smallest to pump Stephen about
Miss Ferguson (who was very possibly the particular lodestar who brought Miss Ferguson (who was very possibly the particular lodestar who brought
him down to Irishtown so early in the morning), as to whether he would him down to Irishtown so early in the morning), as to whether he would
find much satisfaction basking in the boy and girl courtship idea and the find much satisfaction basking in the boy and girl courtship idea and the
company of smirking misses without a penny to their names bi or triweekly company of smirking misses without a penny to their names bi or triweekly
with the orthodox preliminary canter of complimentplaying and walking out with the orthodox preliminary canter of complimentplaying and walking out
leading up to fond lovers' ways and flowers and chocs. To think of him leading up to fond lovers' ways and flowers and chocs. To think of him
house and homeless, rooked by some landlady worse than any stepmother, house and homeless, rooked by some landlady worse than any stepmother,
was really too bad at his age. The queer suddenly things he popped out was really too bad at his age. The queer suddenly things he popped out
with attracted the elder man who was several years the other's senior or with attracted the elder man who was several years the other's senior or
like his father but something substantial he certainly ought to eat even like his father but something substantial he certainly ought to eat even
were it only an eggflip made on unadulterated maternal nutriment or, were it only an eggflip made on unadulterated maternal nutriment or,
failing that, the homely Humpty Dumpty boiled. failing that, the homely Humpty Dumpty boiled.
--At what o'clock did you dine? he questioned of the slim form and tired --At what o'clock did you dine? he questioned of the slim form and tired
though unwrinkled face. though unwrinkled face.
--Some time yesterday, Stephen said. --Some time yesterday, Stephen said.
--Yesterday! exclaimed Bloom till he remembered it was already tomorrow --Yesterday! exclaimed Bloom till he remembered it was already tomorrow
Friday. Ah, you mean it's after twelve! Friday. Ah, you mean it's after twelve!
--The day before yesterday, Stephen said, improving on himself. --The day before yesterday, Stephen said, improving on himself.
Literally astounded at this piece of intelligence Bloom reflected. Though Literally astounded at this piece of intelligence Bloom reflected. Though
they didn't see eye to eye in everything a certain analogy there somehow they didn't see eye to eye in everything a certain analogy there somehow
was as if both their minds were travelling, so to speak, in the one train was as if both their minds were travelling, so to speak, in the one train
of thought. At his age when dabbling in politics roughly some score of of thought. At his age when dabbling in politics roughly some score of
years previously when he had been a QUASI aspirant to parliamentary years previously when he had been a QUASI aspirant to parliamentary
honours in the Buckshot Foster days he too recollected in retrospect honours in the Buckshot Foster days he too recollected in retrospect
(which was a source of keen satisfaction in itself) he had a sneaking (which was a source of keen satisfaction in itself) he had a sneaking
regard for those same ultra ideas. For instance when the evicted tenants regard for those same ultra ideas. For instance when the evicted tenants
question, then at its first inception, bulked largely in people's mind question, then at its first inception, bulked largely in people's mind
though, it goes without saying, not contributing a copper or pinning his though, it goes without saying, not contributing a copper or pinning his
faith absolutely to its dictums, some of which wouldn't exactly hold faith absolutely to its dictums, some of which wouldn't exactly hold
water, he at the outset in principle at all events was in thorough water, he at the outset in principle at all events was in thorough
sympathy with peasant possession as voicing the trend of modern opinion sympathy with peasant possession as voicing the trend of modern opinion
(a partiality, however, which, realising his mistake, he was subsequently (a partiality, however, which, realising his mistake, he was subsequently
partially cured of) and even was twitted with going a step farther than partially cured of) and even was twitted with going a step farther than
Michael Davitt in the striking views he at one time inculcated as a Michael Davitt in the striking views he at one time inculcated as a
backtothelander, which was one reason he strongly resented the innuendo backtothelander, which was one reason he strongly resented the innuendo
put upon him in so barefaced a fashion by our friend at the gathering of put upon him in so barefaced a fashion by our friend at the gathering of
the clans in Barney Kiernan's so that he, though often considerably the clans in Barney Kiernan's so that he, though often considerably
misunderstood and the least pugnacious of mortals, be it repeated, misunderstood and the least pugnacious of mortals, be it repeated,
departed from his customary habit to give him (metaphorically) one in the departed from his customary habit to give him (metaphorically) one in the
gizzard though, so far as politics themselves were concerned, he was only gizzard though, so far as politics themselves were concerned, he was only
too conscious of the casualties invariably resulting from propaganda and too conscious of the casualties invariably resulting from propaganda and
displays of mutual animosity and the misery and suffering it entailed as displays of mutual animosity and the misery and suffering it entailed as
a foregone conclusion on fine young fellows, chiefly, destruction of the a foregone conclusion on fine young fellows, chiefly, destruction of the
fittest, in a word. fittest, in a word.
Anyhow upon weighing up the pros and cons, getting on for one, as it was, Anyhow upon weighing up the pros and cons, getting on for one, as it was,
it was high time to be retiring for the night. The crux was it was a bit it was high time to be retiring for the night. The crux was it was a bit
risky to bring him home as eventualities might possibly ensue (somebody risky to bring him home as eventualities might possibly ensue (somebody
having a temper of her own sometimes) and spoil the hash altogether as on having a temper of her own sometimes) and spoil the hash altogether as on
the night he misguidedly brought home a dog (breed unknown) with a lame the night he misguidedly brought home a dog (breed unknown) with a lame
paw (not that the cases were either identical or the reverse though he paw (not that the cases were either identical or the reverse though he
had hurt his hand too) to Ontario Terrace as he very distinctly had hurt his hand too) to Ontario Terrace as he very distinctly
remembered, having been there, so to speak. On the other hand it was remembered, having been there, so to speak. On the other hand it was
altogether far and away too late for the Sandymount or Sandycove altogether far and away too late for the Sandymount or Sandycove
suggestion so that he was in some perplexity as to which of the two suggestion so that he was in some perplexity as to which of the two
alternatives. Everything pointed to the fact that it behoved him to avail alternatives. Everything pointed to the fact that it behoved him to avail
himself to the full of the opportunity, all things considered. His himself to the full of the opportunity, all things considered. His
initial impression was he was a shade standoffish or not over effusive initial impression was he was a shade standoffish or not over effusive
but it grew on him someway. For one thing he mightn't what you call jump but it grew on him someway. For one thing he mightn't what you call jump
at the idea, if approached, and what mostly worried him was he didn't at the idea, if approached, and what mostly worried him was he didn't
know how to lead up to it or word it exactly, supposing he did entertain know how to lead up to it or word it exactly, supposing he did entertain
the proposal, as it would afford him very great personal pleasure if he the proposal, as it would afford him very great personal pleasure if he
would allow him to help to put coin in his way or some wardrobe, if found would allow him to help to put coin in his way or some wardrobe, if found
suitable. At all events he wound up by concluding, eschewing for the suitable. At all events he wound up by concluding, eschewing for the
nonce hidebound precedent, a cup of Epps's cocoa and a shakedown for the nonce hidebound precedent, a cup of Epps's cocoa and a shakedown for the
night plus the use of a rug or two and overcoat doubled into a pillow at night plus the use of a rug or two and overcoat doubled into a pillow at
least he would be in safe hands and as warm as a toast on a trivet he least he would be in safe hands and as warm as a toast on a trivet he
failed to perceive any very vast amount of harm in that always with the failed to perceive any very vast amount of harm in that always with the
proviso no rumpus of any sort was kicked up. A move had to be made proviso no rumpus of any sort was kicked up. A move had to be made
because that merry old soul, the grasswidower in question who appeared to because that merry old soul, the grasswidower in question who appeared to
be glued to the spot, didn't appear in any particular hurry to wend his be glued to the spot, didn't appear in any particular hurry to wend his
way home to his dearly beloved Queenstown and it was highly likely some way home to his dearly beloved Queenstown and it was highly likely some
sponger's bawdyhouse of retired beauties where age was no bar off Sheriff sponger's bawdyhouse of retired beauties where age was no bar off Sheriff
street lower would be the best clue to that equivocal character's street lower would be the best clue to that equivocal character's
whereabouts for a few days to come, alternately racking their feelings whereabouts for a few days to come, alternately racking their feelings
(the mermaids') with sixchamber revolver anecdotes verging on the (the mermaids') with sixchamber revolver anecdotes verging on the
tropical calculated to freeze the marrow of anybody's bones and mauling tropical calculated to freeze the marrow of anybody's bones and mauling
their largesized charms betweenwhiles with rough and tumble gusto to the their largesized charms betweenwhiles with rough and tumble gusto to the
accompaniment of large potations of potheen and the usual blarney about accompaniment of large potations of potheen and the usual blarney about
himself for as to who he in reality was let x equal my right name and himself for as to who he in reality was let x equal my right name and
address, as Mr Algebra remarks PASSIM. At the same time he inwardly address, as Mr Algebra remarks PASSIM. At the same time he inwardly
chuckled over his gentle repartee to the blood and ouns champion about chuckled over his gentle repartee to the blood and ouns champion about
his god being a jew. People could put up with being bitten by a wolf but his god being a jew. People could put up with being bitten by a wolf but
what properly riled them was a bite from a sheep. The most vulnerable what properly riled them was a bite from a sheep. The most vulnerable
point too of tender Achilles. Your god was a jew. Because mostly they point too of tender Achilles. Your god was a jew. Because mostly they
appeared to imagine he came from Carrick-on-Shannon or somewhereabouts in appeared to imagine he came from Carrick-on-Shannon or somewhereabouts in
the county Sligo. the county Sligo.
--I propose, our hero eventually suggested after mature reflection while --I propose, our hero eventually suggested after mature reflection while
prudently pocketing her photo, as it's rather stuffy here you just come prudently pocketing her photo, as it's rather stuffy here you just come
home with me and talk things over. My diggings are quite close in the home with me and talk things over. My diggings are quite close in the
vicinity. You can't drink that stuff. Do you like cocoa? Wait. I'll just vicinity. You can't drink that stuff. Do you like cocoa? Wait. I'll just
pay this lot. pay this lot.
The best plan clearly being to clear out, the remainder being plain The best plan clearly being to clear out, the remainder being plain
sailing, he beckoned, while prudently pocketing the photo, to the keeper sailing, he beckoned, while prudently pocketing the photo, to the keeper
of the shanty who didn't seem to. of the shanty who didn't seem to.
--Yes, that's the best, he assured Stephen to whom for the matter of that --Yes, that's the best, he assured Stephen to whom for the matter of that
Brazen Head or him or anywhere else was all more or less. Brazen Head or him or anywhere else was all more or less.
All kinds of Utopian plans were flashing through his (B's) busy brain, All kinds of Utopian plans were flashing through his (B's) busy brain,
education (the genuine article), literature, journalism, prize titbits, education (the genuine article), literature, journalism, prize titbits,
up to date billing, concert tours in English watering resorts packed with up to date billing, concert tours in English watering resorts packed with
hydros and seaside theatres, turning money away, duets in Italian with hydros and seaside theatres, turning money away, duets in Italian with
the accent perfectly true to nature and a quantity of other things, no the accent perfectly true to nature and a quantity of other things, no
necessity, of course, to tell the world and his wife from the housetops necessity, of course, to tell the world and his wife from the housetops
about it, and a slice of luck. An opening was all was wanted. Because he about it, and a slice of luck. An opening was all was wanted. Because he
more than suspected he had his father's voice to bank his hopes on which more than suspected he had his father's voice to bank his hopes on which
it was quite on the cards he had so it would be just as well, by the way it was quite on the cards he had so it would be just as well, by the way
no harm, to trail the conversation in the direction of that particular no harm, to trail the conversation in the direction of that particular
red herring just to. red herring just to.
The cabby read out of the paper he had got hold of that the former The cabby read out of the paper he had got hold of that the former
viceroy, earl Cadogan, had presided at the cabdrivers' association dinner viceroy, earl Cadogan, had presided at the cabdrivers' association dinner
in London somewhere. Silence with a yawn or two accompanied this in London somewhere. Silence with a yawn or two accompanied this
thrilling announcement. Then the old specimen in the corner who appeared thrilling announcement. Then the old specimen in the corner who appeared
to have some spark of vitality left read out that sir Anthony MacDonnell to have some spark of vitality left read out that sir Anthony MacDonnell
had left Euston for the chief secretary's lodge or words to that effect. had left Euston for the chief secretary's lodge or words to that effect.
To which absorbing piece of intelligence echo answered why. To which absorbing piece of intelligence echo answered why.
--Give us a squint at that literature, grandfather, the ancient mariner --Give us a squint at that literature, grandfather, the ancient mariner
put in, manifesting some natural impatience. put in, manifesting some natural impatience.
--And welcome, answered the elderly party thus addressed. --And welcome, answered the elderly party thus addressed.
The sailor lugged out from a case he had a pair of greenish goggles which The sailor lugged out from a case he had a pair of greenish goggles which
he very slowly hooked over his nose and both ears. he very slowly hooked over his nose and both ears.
--Are you bad in the eyes? the sympathetic personage like the townclerk --Are you bad in the eyes? the sympathetic personage like the townclerk
queried. queried.
--Why, answered the seafarer with the tartan beard, who seemingly was a --Why, answered the seafarer with the tartan beard, who seemingly was a
bit of a literary cove in his own small way, staring out of seagreen bit of a literary cove in his own small way, staring out of seagreen
portholes as you might well describe them as, I uses goggles reading. portholes as you might well describe them as, I uses goggles reading.
Sand in the Red Sea done that. One time I could read a book in the dark, Sand in the Red Sea done that. One time I could read a book in the dark,
manner of speaking. THE ARABIAN NIGHTS ENTERTAINMENT was my favourite and manner of speaking. THE ARABIAN NIGHTS ENTERTAINMENT was my favourite and
RED AS A ROSE IS SHE. RED AS A ROSE IS SHE.
Hereupon he pawed the journal open and pored upon Lord only knows what, Hereupon he pawed the journal open and pored upon Lord only knows what,
found drowned or the exploits of King Willow, Iremonger having made a found drowned or the exploits of King Willow, Iremonger having made a
hundred and something second wicket not out for Notts, during which time hundred and something second wicket not out for Notts, during which time
(completely regardless of Ire) the keeper was intensely occupied (completely regardless of Ire) the keeper was intensely occupied
loosening an apparently new or secondhand boot which manifestly pinched loosening an apparently new or secondhand boot which manifestly pinched
him as he muttered against whoever it was sold it, all of them who were him as he muttered against whoever it was sold it, all of them who were
sufficiently awake enough to be picked out by their facial expressions, sufficiently awake enough to be picked out by their facial expressions,
that is to say, either simply looking on glumly or passing a trivial that is to say, either simply looking on glumly or passing a trivial
remark. remark.
To cut a long story short Bloom, grasping the situation, was the first to To cut a long story short Bloom, grasping the situation, was the first to
rise from his seat so as not to outstay their welcome having first and rise from his seat so as not to outstay their welcome having first and
foremost, being as good as his word that he would foot the bill for the foremost, being as good as his word that he would foot the bill for the
occasion, taken the wise precaution to unobtrusively motion to mine host occasion, taken the wise precaution to unobtrusively motion to mine host
as a parting shot a scarcely perceptible sign when the others were not as a parting shot a scarcely perceptible sign when the others were not
looking to the effect that the amount due was forthcoming, making a grand looking to the effect that the amount due was forthcoming, making a grand
total of fourpence (the amount he deposited unobtrusively in four total of fourpence (the amount he deposited unobtrusively in four
coppers, literally the last of the Mohicans), he having previously coppers, literally the last of the Mohicans), he having previously
spotted on the printed pricelist for all who ran to read opposite him in spotted on the printed pricelist for all who ran to read opposite him in
unmistakable figures, coffee 2d, confectionery do, and honestly well unmistakable figures, coffee 2d, confectionery do, and honestly well
worth twice the money once in a way, as Wetherup used to remark. worth twice the money once in a way, as Wetherup used to remark.
--Come, he counselled to close the SEANCE. --Come, he counselled to close the SEANCE.
Seeing that the ruse worked and the coast was clear they left the shelter Seeing that the ruse worked and the coast was clear they left the shelter
or shanty together and the ELITE society of oilskin and company whom or shanty together and the ELITE society of oilskin and company whom
nothing short of an earthquake would move out of their DOLCE FAR NIENTE. nothing short of an earthquake would move out of their DOLCE FAR NIENTE.
Stephen, who confessed to still feeling poorly and fagged out, paused at Stephen, who confessed to still feeling poorly and fagged out, paused at
the, for a moment, the door. the, for a moment, the door.
--One thing I never understood, he said to be original on the spur of the --One thing I never understood, he said to be original on the spur of the
moment. Why they put tables upside down at night, I mean chairs upside moment. Why they put tables upside down at night, I mean chairs upside
down, on the tables in cafes. To which impromptu the neverfailing Bloom down, on the tables in cafes. To which impromptu the neverfailing Bloom
replied without a moment's hesitation, saying straight off: replied without a moment's hesitation, saying straight off:
dog all over the dead dog's bedraggled fell. Dogskull, dogsniff, eyes on dog all over the dead dog's bedraggled fell. Dogskull, dogsniff, eyes on
the ground, moves to one great goal. Ah, poor dogsbody! Here lies poor the ground, moves to one great goal. Ah, poor dogsbody! Here lies poor
dogsbody's body. dogsbody's body.
--Tatters! Out of that, you mongrel! --Tatters! Out of that, you mongrel!
The cry brought him skulking back to his master and a blunt bootless The cry brought him skulking back to his master and a blunt bootless
kick sent him unscathed across a spit of sand, crouched in flight. He kick sent him unscathed across a spit of sand, crouched in flight. He
slunk back in a curve. Doesn't see me. Along by the edge of the mole he slunk back in a curve. Doesn't see me. Along by the edge of the mole he
lolloped, dawdled, smelt a rock. and from under a cocked hindleg pissed lolloped, dawdled, smelt a rock. and from under a cocked hindleg pissed
against it. He trotted forward and, lifting again his hindleg, pissed against it. He trotted forward and, lifting again his hindleg, pissed
quick short at an unsmelt rock. The simple pleasures of the poor. His quick short at an unsmelt rock. The simple pleasures of the poor. His
hindpaws then scattered the sand: then his forepaws dabbled and delved. hindpaws then scattered the sand: then his forepaws dabbled and delved.
Something he buried there, his grandmother. He rooted in the sand, Something he buried there, his grandmother. He rooted in the sand,
dabbling, delving and stopped to listen to the air, scraped up the sand dabbling, delving and stopped to listen to the air, scraped up the sand
again with a fury of his claws, soon ceasing, a pard, a panther, got in again with a fury of his claws, soon ceasing, a pard, a panther, got in
spousebreach, vulturing the dead. spousebreach, vulturing the dead.
After he woke me last night same dream or was it? Wait. Open After he woke me last night same dream or was it? Wait. Open
hallway. Street of harlots. Remember. Haroun al Raschid. I am almosting hallway. Street of harlots. Remember. Haroun al Raschid. I am almosting
it. That man led me, spoke. I was not afraid. The melon he had he held it. That man led me, spoke. I was not afraid. The melon he had he held
against my face. Smiled: creamfruit smell. That was the rule, said. In. against my face. Smiled: creamfruit smell. That was the rule, said. In.
Come. Red carpet spread. You will see who. Come. Red carpet spread. You will see who.
Shouldering their bags they trudged, the red Egyptians. His blued Shouldering their bags they trudged, the red Egyptians. His blued
feet out of turnedup trousers slapped the clammy sand, a dull brick feet out of turnedup trousers slapped the clammy sand, a dull brick
muffler strangling his unshaven neck. With woman steps she followed: the muffler strangling his unshaven neck. With woman steps she followed: the
ruffian and his strolling mort. Spoils slung at her back. Loose sand and ruffian and his strolling mort. Spoils slung at her back. Loose sand and
shellgrit crusted her bare feet. About her windraw face hair trailed. shellgrit crusted her bare feet. About her windraw face hair trailed.
Behind her lord, his helpmate, bing awast to Romeville. When night hides Behind her lord, his helpmate, bing awast to Romeville. When night hides
her body's flaws calling under her brown shawl from an archway where dogs her body's flaws calling under her brown shawl from an archway where dogs
have mired. Her fancyman is treating two Royal Dublins in O'Loughlin's of have mired. Her fancyman is treating two Royal Dublins in O'Loughlin's of
Blackpitts. Buss her, wap in rogues' rum lingo, for, O, my dimber wapping Blackpitts. Buss her, wap in rogues' rum lingo, for, O, my dimber wapping
dell! A shefiend's whiteness under her rancid rags. Fumbally's lane that dell! A shefiend's whiteness under her rancid rags. Fumbally's lane that
night: the tanyard smells. night: the tanyard smells.
    WHITE THY FAMBLES, RED THY GAN     WHITE THY FAMBLES, RED THY GAN
    AND THY QUARRONS DAINTY IS.     AND THY QUARRONS DAINTY IS.
    COUCH A HOGSHEAD WITH ME THEN.     COUCH A HOGSHEAD WITH ME THEN.
    IN THE DARKMANS CLIP AND KISS.     IN THE DARKMANS CLIP AND KISS.
Morose delectation Aquinas tunbelly calls this, FRATE PORCOSPINO. Morose delectation Aquinas tunbelly calls this, FRATE PORCOSPINO.
Unfallen Adam rode and not rutted. Call away let him: THY QUARRONS DAINTY Unfallen Adam rode and not rutted. Call away let him: THY QUARRONS DAINTY
IS. Language no whit worse than his. Monkwords, marybeads jabber on IS. Language no whit worse than his. Monkwords, marybeads jabber on
their girdles: roguewords, tough nuggets patter in their pockets. their girdles: roguewords, tough nuggets patter in their pockets.
Passing now. Passing now.
A side eye at my Hamlet hat. If I were suddenly naked here as I sit? I A side eye at my Hamlet hat. If I were suddenly naked here as I sit? I
am not. Across the sands of all the world, followed by the sun's flaming am not. Across the sands of all the world, followed by the sun's flaming
sword, to the west, trekking to evening lands. She trudges, schlepps, sword, to the west, trekking to evening lands. She trudges, schlepps,
trains, drags, trascines her load. A tide westering, moondrawn, in her trains, drags, trascines her load. A tide westering, moondrawn, in her
wake. Tides, myriadislanded, within her, blood not mine, OINOPA PONTON, wake. Tides, myriadislanded, within her, blood not mine, OINOPA PONTON,
a winedark sea. Behold the handmaid of the moon. In sleep the wet sign a winedark sea. Behold the handmaid of the moon. In sleep the wet sign
calls her hour, bids her rise. Bridebed, childbed, bed of death, calls her hour, bids her rise. Bridebed, childbed, bed of death,
ghostcandled. OMNIS CARO AD TE VENIET. He comes, pale vampire, through ghostcandled. OMNIS CARO AD TE VENIET. He comes, pale vampire, through
storm his eyes, his bat sails bloodying the sea, mouth to her mouth's storm his eyes, his bat sails bloodying the sea, mouth to her mouth's
kiss. kiss.
Here. Put a pin in that chap, will you? My tablets. Mouth to her kiss. Here. Put a pin in that chap, will you? My tablets. Mouth to her kiss.
No. Must be two of em. Glue em well. Mouth to her mouth's kiss. No. Must be two of em. Glue em well. Mouth to her mouth's kiss.
His lips lipped and mouthed fleshless lips of air: mouth to her His lips lipped and mouthed fleshless lips of air: mouth to her
moomb. Oomb, allwombing tomb. His mouth moulded issuing breath, moomb. Oomb, allwombing tomb. His mouth moulded issuing breath,
unspeeched: ooeeehah: roar of cataractic planets, globed, blazing, roaring unspeeched: ooeeehah: roar of cataractic planets, globed, blazing, roaring
wayawayawayawayaway. Paper. The banknotes, blast them. Old Deasy's wayawayawayawayaway. Paper. The banknotes, blast them. Old Deasy's
letter. Here. Thanking you for the hospitality tear the blank end off. letter. Here. Thanking you for the hospitality tear the blank end off.
Turning his back to the sun he bent over far to a table of rock and Turning his back to the sun he bent over far to a table of rock and
scribbled words. That's twice I forgot to take slips from the library scribbled words. That's twice I forgot to take slips from the library
counter. counter.
His shadow lay over the rocks as he bent, ending. Why not endless till His shadow lay over the rocks as he bent, ending. Why not endless till
the farthest star? Darkly they are there behind this light, darkness the farthest star? Darkly they are there behind this light, darkness
shining in the brightness, delta of Cassiopeia, worlds. Me sits there with shining in the brightness, delta of Cassiopeia, worlds. Me sits there with
his augur's rod of ash, in borrowed sandals, by day beside a livid sea, his augur's rod of ash, in borrowed sandals, by day beside a livid sea,
unbeheld, in violet night walking beneath a reign of uncouth stars. unbeheld, in violet night walking beneath a reign of uncouth stars.
I throw this ended shadow from me, manshape ineluctable, call it back. I throw this ended shadow from me, manshape ineluctable, call it back.
Endless, would it be mine, form of my form? Who watches me here? Who ever Endless, would it be mine, form of my form? Who watches me here? Who ever
anywhere will read these written words? Signs on a white field. Somewhere anywhere will read these written words? Signs on a white field. Somewhere
to someone in your flutiest voice. The good bishop of Cloyne took the veil to someone in your flutiest voice. The good bishop of Cloyne took the veil
of the temple out of his shovel hat: veil of space with coloured emblems of the temple out of his shovel hat: veil of space with coloured emblems
hatched on its field. Hold hard. Coloured on a flat: yes, that's right. hatched on its field. Hold hard. Coloured on a flat: yes, that's right.
Flat I see, then think distance, near, far, flat I see, east, back. Ah, Flat I see, then think distance, near, far, flat I see, east, back. Ah,
see now! Falls back suddenly, frozen in stereoscope. Click does the trick. see now! Falls back suddenly, frozen in stereoscope. Click does the trick.
You find my words dark. Darkness is in our souls do you not think? You find my words dark. Darkness is in our souls do you not think?
Flutier. Our souls, shamewounded by our sins, cling to us yet more, Flutier. Our souls, shamewounded by our sins, cling to us yet more,
a woman to her lover clinging, the more the more. a woman to her lover clinging, the more the more.
She trusts me, her hand gentle, the longlashed eyes. Now where the blue She trusts me, her hand gentle, the longlashed eyes. Now where the blue
hell am I bringing her beyond the veil? Into the ineluctable modality hell am I bringing her beyond the veil? Into the ineluctable modality
of the ineluctable visuality. She, she, she. What she? The virgin of the ineluctable visuality. She, she, she. What she? The virgin
at Hodges Figgis' window on Monday looking in for one of the alphabet at Hodges Figgis' window on Monday looking in for one of the alphabet
books you were going to write. Keen glance you gave her. Wrist through books you were going to write. Keen glance you gave her. Wrist through
the braided jesse of her sunshade. She lives in Leeson park with the braided jesse of her sunshade. She lives in Leeson park with
a grief and kickshaws, a lady of letters. Talk that to someone else, a grief and kickshaws, a lady of letters. Talk that to someone else,
Stevie: a pickmeup. Bet she wears those curse of God stays suspenders Stevie: a pickmeup. Bet she wears those curse of God stays suspenders
and yellow stockings, darned with lumpy wool. Talk about apple dumplings, and yellow stockings, darned with lumpy wool. Talk about apple dumplings,
PIUTTOSTO. Where are your wits? PIUTTOSTO. Where are your wits?
Touch me. Soft eyes. Soft soft soft hand. I am lonely here. O, touch Touch me. Soft eyes. Soft soft soft hand. I am lonely here. O, touch
me soon, now. What is that word known to all men? I am quiet here alone. me soon, now. What is that word known to all men? I am quiet here alone.
Sad too. Touch, touch me. Sad too. Touch, touch me.
He lay back at full stretch over the sharp rocks, cramming the He lay back at full stretch over the sharp rocks, cramming the
scribbled note and pencil into a pock his hat. His hat down on his eyes. scribbled note and pencil into a pock his hat. His hat down on his eyes.
That is Kevin Egan's movement I made, nodding for his nap, sabbath sleep. That is Kevin Egan's movement I made, nodding for his nap, sabbath sleep.
ET VIDIT DEUS. ET ERANT VALDE BONA. Alo! BONJOUR. Welcome as the flowers ET VIDIT DEUS. ET ERANT VALDE BONA. Alo! BONJOUR. Welcome as the flowers
in May. Under its leaf he watched through peacocktwittering lashes the in May. Under its leaf he watched through peacocktwittering lashes the
southing sun. I am caught in this burning scene. Pan's hour, the faunal southing sun. I am caught in this burning scene. Pan's hour, the faunal
noon. Among gumheavy serpentplants, milkoozing fruits, where on the noon. Among gumheavy serpentplants, milkoozing fruits, where on the
tawny waters leaves lie wide. Pain is far. tawny waters leaves lie wide. Pain is far.
AND NO MORE TURN ASIDE AND BROOD. AND NO MORE TURN ASIDE AND BROOD.
His gaze brooded on his broadtoed boots, a buck's castoffs, His gaze brooded on his broadtoed boots, a buck's castoffs,
NEBENEINANDER. He counted the creases of rucked leather wherein another's NEBENEINANDER. He counted the creases of rucked leather wherein another's
foot had nested warm. The foot that beat the ground in tripudium, foot I foot had nested warm. The foot that beat the ground in tripudium, foot I
dislove. But you were delighted when Esther Osvalt's shoe went on you: dislove. But you were delighted when Esther Osvalt's shoe went on you:
girl I knew in Paris. TIENS, QUEL PETIT PIED! Staunch friend, a brother girl I knew in Paris. TIENS, QUEL PETIT PIED! Staunch friend, a brother
soul: Wilde's love that dare not speak its name. His arm: Cranly's arm. He soul: Wilde's love that dare not speak its name. His arm: Cranly's arm. He
now will leave me. And the blame? As I am. As I am. All or not at all. now will leave me. And the blame? As I am. As I am. All or not at all.
In long lassoes from the Cock lake the water flowed full, covering In long lassoes from the Cock lake the water flowed full, covering
greengoldenly lagoons of sand, rising, flowing. My ashplant will float greengoldenly lagoons of sand, rising, flowing. My ashplant will float
away. I shall wait. No, they will pass on, passing, chafing against the away. I shall wait. No, they will pass on, passing, chafing against the
low rocks, swirling, passing. Better get this job over quick. Listen: a low rocks, swirling, passing. Better get this job over quick. Listen: a
fourworded wavespeech: seesoo, hrss, rsseeiss, ooos. Vehement breath of fourworded wavespeech: seesoo, hrss, rsseeiss, ooos. Vehement breath of
waters amid seasnakes, rearing horses, rocks. In cups of rocks it slops: waters amid seasnakes, rearing horses, rocks. In cups of rocks it slops:
flop, slop, slap: bounded in barrels. And, spent, its speech ceases. It flop, slop, slap: bounded in barrels. And, spent, its speech ceases. It
flows purling, widely flowing, floating foampool, flower unfurling. flows purling, widely flowing, floating foampool, flower unfurling.
Under the upswelling tide he saw the writhing weeds lift languidly Under the upswelling tide he saw the writhing weeds lift languidly
and sway reluctant arms, hising up their petticoats, in whispering water and sway reluctant arms, hising up their petticoats, in whispering water
swaying and upturning coy silver fronds. Day by day: night by night: swaying and upturning coy silver fronds. Day by day: night by night:
lifted, flooded and let fall. Lord, they are weary; and, whispered to, lifted, flooded and let fall. Lord, they are weary; and, whispered to,
they sigh. Saint Ambrose heard it, sigh of leaves and waves, waiting, they sigh. Saint Ambrose heard it, sigh of leaves and waves, waiting,
awaiting the fullness of their times, DIEBUS AC NOCTIBUS INIURIAS PATIENS awaiting the fullness of their times, DIEBUS AC NOCTIBUS INIURIAS PATIENS
INGEMISCIT. To no end gathered; vainly then released, forthflowing, INGEMISCIT. To no end gathered; vainly then released, forthflowing,
wending back: loom of the moon. Weary too in sight of lovers, lascivious wending back: loom of the moon. Weary too in sight of lovers, lascivious
men, a naked woman shining in her courts, she draws a toil of waters. men, a naked woman shining in her courts, she draws a toil of waters.
Five fathoms out there. Full fathom five thy father lies. At one, he Five fathoms out there. Full fathom five thy father lies. At one, he
said. Found drowned. High water at Dublin bar. Driving before it a loose said. Found drowned. High water at Dublin bar. Driving before it a loose
drift of rubble, fanshoals of fishes, silly shells. A corpse rising drift of rubble, fanshoals of fishes, silly shells. A corpse rising
saltwhite from the undertow, bobbing a pace a pace a porpoise landward. saltwhite from the undertow, bobbing a pace a pace a porpoise landward.
There he is. Hook it quick. Pull. Sunk though he be beneath the watery There he is. Hook it quick. Pull. Sunk though he be beneath the watery
floor. We have him. Easy now. floor. We have him. Easy now.
Bag of corpsegas sopping in foul brine. A quiver of minnows, fat of a Bag of corpsegas sopping in foul brine. A quiver of minnows, fat of a
spongy titbit, flash through the slits of his buttoned trouserfly. God spongy titbit, flash through the slits of his buttoned trouserfly. God
becomes man becomes fish becomes barnacle goose becomes featherbed becomes man becomes fish becomes barnacle goose becomes featherbed
mountain. Dead breaths I living breathe, tread dead dust, devour a urinous mountain. Dead breaths I living breathe, tread dead dust, devour a urinous
offal from all dead. Hauled stark over the gunwale he breathes upward the offal from all dead. Hauled stark over the gunwale he breathes upward the
stench of his green grave, his leprous nosehole snoring to the sun. stench of his green grave, his leprous nosehole snoring to the sun.
A seachange this, brown eyes saltblue. Seadeath, mildest of all deaths A seachange this, brown eyes saltblue. Seadeath, mildest of all deaths
known to man. Old Father Ocean. PRIX DE PARIS: beware of imitations. Just known to man. Old Father Ocean. PRIX DE PARIS: beware of imitations. Just
you give it a fair trial. We enjoyed ourselves immensely. you give it a fair trial. We enjoyed ourselves immensely.
Come. I thirst. Clouding over. No black clouds anywhere, are there? Come. I thirst. Clouding over. No black clouds anywhere, are there?
Thunderstorm. Allbright he falls, proud lightning of the intellect, Thunderstorm. Allbright he falls, proud lightning of the intellect,
LUCIFER, DICO, QUI NESCIT OCCASUM. No. My cockle hat and staff and hismy LUCIFER, DICO, QUI NESCIT OCCASUM. No. My cockle hat and staff and hismy
sandal shoon. Where? To evening lands. Evening will find itself. sandal shoon. Where? To evening lands. Evening will find itself.
He took the hilt of his ashplant, lunging with it softly, dallying still. He took the hilt of his ashplant, lunging with it softly, dallying still.
Yes, evening will find itself in me, without me. All days make their end. Yes, evening will find itself in me, without me. All days make their end.
By the way next when is it Tuesday will be the longest day. Of all the By the way next when is it Tuesday will be the longest day. Of all the
glad new year, mother, the rum tum tiddledy tum. Lawn Tennyson, gentleman glad new year, mother, the rum tum tiddledy tum. Lawn Tennyson, gentleman
poet. GIA. For the old hag with the yellow teeth. And Monsieur Drumont, poet. GIA. For the old hag with the yellow teeth. And Monsieur Drumont,
gentleman journalist. GIA. My teeth are very bad. Why, I wonder. Feel. gentleman journalist. GIA. My teeth are very bad. Why, I wonder. Feel.
That one is going too. Shells. Ought I go to a dentist, I wonder, with That one is going too. Shells. Ought I go to a dentist, I wonder, with
that money? That one. This. Toothless Kinch, the superman. Why is that, I that money? That one. This. Toothless Kinch, the superman. Why is that, I
wonder, or does it mean something perhaps? wonder, or does it mean something perhaps?
My handkerchief. He threw it. I remember. Did I not take it up? My handkerchief. He threw it. I remember. Did I not take it up?
His hand groped vainly in his pockets. No, I didn't. Better buy one. His hand groped vainly in his pockets. No, I didn't. Better buy one.
He laid the dry snot picked from his nostril on a ledge of rock, He laid the dry snot picked from his nostril on a ledge of rock,
carefully. For the rest let look who will. carefully. For the rest let look who will.
Behind. Perhaps there is someone. Behind. Perhaps there is someone.
He turned his face over a shoulder, rere regardant. Moving through He turned his face over a shoulder, rere regardant. Moving through
the air high spars of a threemaster, her sails brailed up on the the air high spars of a threemaster, her sails brailed up on the
crosstrees, homing, upstream, silently moving, a silent ship. crosstrees, homing, upstream, silently moving, a silent ship.
    -- II --     -- II --
Mr Leopold Bloom ate with relish the inner organs of beasts and fowls. He Mr Leopold Bloom ate with relish the inner organs of beasts and fowls. He
liked thick giblet soup, nutty gizzards, a stuffed roast heart, liked thick giblet soup, nutty gizzards, a stuffed roast heart,
liverslices fried with crustcrumbs, fried hencods' roes. Most of all he liverslices fried with crustcrumbs, fried hencods' roes. Most of all he
liked grilled mutton kidneys which gave to his palate a fine tang of liked grilled mutton kidneys which gave to his palate a fine tang of
faintly scented urine. faintly scented urine.
Kidneys were in his mind as he moved about the kitchen softly, righting Kidneys were in his mind as he moved about the kitchen softly, righting
her breakfast things on the humpy tray. Gelid light and air were in the her breakfast things on the humpy tray. Gelid light and air were in the
kitchen but out of doors gentle summer morning everywhere. Made him feel kitchen but out of doors gentle summer morning everywhere. Made him feel
a bit peckish. a bit peckish.
The coals were reddening. The coals were reddening.
Another slice of bread and butter: three, four: right. She didn't like Another slice of bread and butter: three, four: right. She didn't like
her plate full. Right. He turned from the tray, lifted the kettle off the her plate full. Right. He turned from the tray, lifted the kettle off the
hob and set it sideways on the fire. It sat there, dull and squat, its hob and set it sideways on the fire. It sat there, dull and squat, its
spout stuck out. Cup of tea soon. Good. Mouth dry. The cat walked stiffly spout stuck out. Cup of tea soon. Good. Mouth dry. The cat walked stiffly
round a leg of the table with tail on high. round a leg of the table with tail on high.
--Mkgnao! --Mkgnao!
--O, there you are, Mr Bloom said, turning from the fire. --O, there you are, Mr Bloom said, turning from the fire.
The cat mewed in answer and stalked again stiffly round a leg of the The cat mewed in answer and stalked again stiffly round a leg of the
table, mewing. Just how she stalks over my writingtable. Prr. Scratch my table, mewing. Just how she stalks over my writingtable. Prr. Scratch my
head. Prr. head. Prr.
Mr Bloom watched curiously, kindly the lithe black form. Clean to see: Mr Bloom watched curiously, kindly the lithe black form. Clean to see:
the gloss of her sleek hide, the white button under the butt of her tail, the gloss of her sleek hide, the white button under the butt of her tail,
the green flashing eyes. He bent down to her, his hands on his knees. the green flashing eyes. He bent down to her, his hands on his knees.
--Milk for the pussens, he said. --Milk for the pussens, he said.
--Mrkgnao! the cat cried. --Mrkgnao! the cat cried.
They call them stupid. They understand what we say better than we They call them stupid. They understand what we say better than we
understand them. She understands all she wants to. Vindictive too. Cruel. understand them. She understands all she wants to. Vindictive too. Cruel.
Her nature. Curious mice never squeal. Seem to like it. Wonder what I Her nature. Curious mice never squeal. Seem to like it. Wonder what I
look like to her. Height of a tower? No, she can jump me. look like to her. Height of a tower? No, she can jump me.
--Afraid of the chickens she is, he said mockingly. Afraid of the --Afraid of the chickens she is, he said mockingly. Afraid of the
chookchooks. I never saw such a stupid pussens as the pussens. chookchooks. I never saw such a stupid pussens as the pussens.
Cruel. Her nature. Curious mice never squeal. Seem to like it. Cruel. Her nature. Curious mice never squeal. Seem to like it.
--Mrkrgnao! the cat said loudly. --Mrkrgnao! the cat said loudly.
She blinked up out of her avid shameclosing eyes, mewing plaintively and She blinked up out of her avid shameclosing eyes, mewing plaintively and
long, showing him her milkwhite teeth. He watched the dark eyeslits long, showing him her milkwhite teeth. He watched the dark eyeslits
narrowing with greed till her eyes were green stones. Then he went to the narrowing with greed till her eyes were green stones. Then he went to the
dresser, took the jug Hanlon's milkman had just filled for him, poured dresser, took the jug Hanlon's milkman had just filled for him, poured
warmbubbled milk on a saucer and set it slowly on the floor. warmbubbled milk on a saucer and set it slowly on the floor.
--Gurrhr! she cried, running to lap. --Gurrhr! she cried, running to lap.
He watched the bristles shining wirily in the weak light as she tipped He watched the bristles shining wirily in the weak light as she tipped
three times and licked lightly. Wonder is it true if you clip them they three times and licked lightly. Wonder is it true if you clip them they
can't mouse after. Why? They shine in the dark, perhaps, the tips. Or can't mouse after. Why? They shine in the dark, perhaps, the tips. Or
kind of feelers in the dark, perhaps. kind of feelers in the dark, perhaps.
He listened to her licking lap. Ham and eggs, no. No good eggs with this He listened to her licking lap. Ham and eggs, no. No good eggs with this
drouth. Want pure fresh water. Thursday: not a good day either for a drouth. Want pure fresh water. Thursday: not a good day either for a
mutton kidney at Buckley's. Fried with butter, a shake of pepper. Better mutton kidney at Buckley's. Fried with butter, a shake of pepper. Better
a pork kidney at Dlugacz's. While the kettle is boiling. She lapped a pork kidney at Dlugacz's. While the kettle is boiling. She lapped
slower, then licking the saucer clean. Why are their tongues so rough? To slower, then licking the saucer clean. Why are their tongues so rough? To
lap better, all porous holes. Nothing she can eat? He glanced round him. lap better, all porous holes. Nothing she can eat? He glanced round him.
No. No.
On quietly creaky boots he went up the staircase to the hall, paused by On quietly creaky boots he went up the staircase to the hall, paused by
the bedroom door. She might like something tasty. Thin bread and butter the bedroom door. She might like something tasty. Thin bread and butter
she likes in the morning. Still perhaps: once in a way. she likes in the morning. Still perhaps: once in a way.
He said softly in the bare hall: He said softly in the bare hall:
--I'm going round the corner. Be back in a minute. --I'm going round the corner. Be back in a minute.
And when he had heard his voice say it he added: And when he had heard his voice say it he added:
--You don't want anything for breakfast? --You don't want anything for breakfast?
A sleepy soft grunt answered: A sleepy soft grunt answered:
--Mn. --Mn.
No. She didn't want anything. He heard then a warm heavy sigh, softer, as No. She didn't want anything. He heard then a warm heavy sigh, softer, as
she turned over and the loose brass quoits of the bedstead jingled. Must she turned over and the loose brass quoits of the bedstead jingled. Must
get those settled really. Pity. All the way from Gibraltar. Forgotten any get those settled really. Pity. All the way from Gibraltar. Forgotten any
little Spanish she knew. Wonder what her father gave for it. Old style. little Spanish she knew. Wonder what her father gave for it. Old style.
Ah yes! of course. Bought it at the governor's auction. Got a short Ah yes! of course. Bought it at the governor's auction. Got a short
knock. Hard as nails at a bargain, old Tweedy. Yes, sir. At Plevna that knock. Hard as nails at a bargain, old Tweedy. Yes, sir. At Plevna that
was. I rose from the ranks, sir, and I'm proud of it. Still he had brains was. I rose from the ranks, sir, and I'm proud of it. Still he had brains
enough to make that corner in stamps. Now that was farseeing. enough to make that corner in stamps. Now that was farseeing.
His hand took his hat from the peg over his initialled heavy overcoat and His hand took his hat from the peg over his initialled heavy overcoat and
his lost property office secondhand waterproof. Stamps: stickyback his lost property office secondhand waterproof. Stamps: stickyback
pictures. Daresay lots of officers are in the swim too. Course they do. pictures. Daresay lots of officers are in the swim too. Course they do.
The sweated legend in the crown of his hat told him mutely: Plasto's high The sweated legend in the crown of his hat told him mutely: Plasto's high
grade ha. He peeped quickly inside the leather headband. White slip of grade ha. He peeped quickly inside the leather headband. White slip of
paper. Quite safe. paper. Quite safe.
On the doorstep he felt in his hip pocket for the latchkey. Not there. In On the doorstep he felt in his hip pocket for the latchkey. Not there. In
the trousers I left off. Must get it. Potato I have. Creaky wardrobe. No the trousers I left off. Must get it. Potato I have. Creaky wardrobe. No
use disturbing her. She turned over sleepily that time. He pulled the use disturbing her. She turned over sleepily that time. He pulled the
halldoor to after him very quietly, more, till the footleaf dropped halldoor to after him very quietly, more, till the footleaf dropped
gently over the threshold, a limp lid. Looked shut. All right till I come gently over the threshold, a limp lid. Looked shut. All right till I come
back anyhow. back anyhow.
He crossed to the bright side, avoiding the loose cellarflap of number He crossed to the bright side, avoiding the loose cellarflap of number
seventyfive. The sun was nearing the steeple of George's church. Be a seventyfive. The sun was nearing the steeple of George's church. Be a
warm day I fancy. Specially in these black clothes feel it more. Black warm day I fancy. Specially in these black clothes feel it more. Black
conducts, reflects, (refracts is it?), the heat. But I couldn't go in conducts, reflects, (refracts is it?), the heat. But I couldn't go in
that light suit. Make a picnic of it. His eyelids sank quietly often as that light suit. Make a picnic of it. His eyelids sank quietly often as
he walked in happy warmth. Boland's breadvan delivering with trays our he walked in happy warmth. Boland's breadvan delivering with trays our
daily but she prefers yesterday's loaves turnovers crisp crowns hot. daily but she prefers yesterday's loaves turnovers crisp crowns hot.
Makes you feel young. Somewhere in the east: early morning: set off at Makes you feel young. Somewhere in the east: early morning: set off at
dawn. Travel round in front of the sun, steal a day's march on him. Keep dawn. Travel round in front of the sun, steal a day's march on him. Keep
it up for ever never grow a day older technically. Walk along a strand, it up for ever never grow a day older technically. Walk along a strand,
strange land, come to a city gate, sentry there, old ranker too, old strange land, come to a city gate, sentry there, old ranker too, old
Tweedy's big moustaches, leaning on a long kind of a spear. Wander Tweedy's big moustaches, leaning on a long kind of a spear. Wander
through awned streets. Turbaned faces going by. Dark caves of carpet through awned streets. Turbaned faces going by. Dark caves of carpet
shops, big man, Turko the terrible, seated crosslegged, smoking a coiled shops, big man, Turko the terrible, seated crosslegged, smoking a coiled
pipe. Cries of sellers in the streets. Drink water scented with fennel, pipe. Cries of sellers in the streets. Drink water scented with fennel,
sherbet. Dander along all day. Might meet a robber or two. Well, meet sherbet. Dander along all day. Might meet a robber or two. Well, meet
him. Getting on to sundown. The shadows of the mosques among the pillars: him. Getting on to sundown. The shadows of the mosques among the pillars:
priest with a scroll rolled up. A shiver of the trees, signal, the priest with a scroll rolled up. A shiver of the trees, signal, the
evening wind. I pass on. Fading gold sky. A mother watches me from her evening wind. I pass on. Fading gold sky. A mother watches me from her
doorway. She calls her children home in their dark language. High wall: doorway. She calls her children home in their dark language. High wall:
beyond strings twanged. Night sky, moon, violet, colour of Molly's new beyond strings twanged. Night sky, moon, violet, colour of Molly's new
garters. Strings. Listen. A girl playing one of those instruments what do garters. Strings. Listen. A girl playing one of those instruments what do
you call them: dulcimers. I pass. you call them: dulcimers. I pass.
Probably not a bit like it really. Kind of stuff you read: in the track Probably not a bit like it really. Kind of stuff you read: in the track
of the sun. Sunburst on the titlepage. He smiled, pleasing himself. What of the sun. Sunburst on the titlepage. He smiled, pleasing himself. What
Arthur Griffith said about the headpiece over the FREEMAN leader: a Arthur Griffith said about the headpiece over the FREEMAN leader: a
homerule sun rising up in the northwest from the laneway behind the bank homerule sun rising up in the northwest from the laneway behind the bank
of Ireland. He prolonged his pleased smile. Ikey touch that: homerule sun of Ireland. He prolonged his pleased smile. Ikey touch that: homerule sun
rising up in the north-west. rising up in the north-west.
He approached Larry O'Rourke's. From the cellar grating floated up the He approached Larry O'Rourke's. From the cellar grating floated up the
flabby gush of porter. Through the open doorway the bar squirted out flabby gush of porter. Through the open doorway the bar squirted out
whiffs of ginger, teadust, biscuitmush. Good house, however: just the end whiffs of ginger, teadust, biscuitmush. Good house, however: just the end
of the city traffic. For instance M'Auley's down there: n. g. as of the city traffic. For instance M'Auley's down there: n. g. as
position. Of course if they ran a tramline along the North Circular from position. Of course if they ran a tramline along the North Circular from
the cattlemarket to the quays value would go up like a shot. the cattlemarket to the quays value would go up like a shot.
Baldhead over the blind. Cute old codger. No use canvassing him for an Baldhead over the blind. Cute old codger. No use canvassing him for an
ad. Still he knows his own business best. There he is, sure enough, my ad. Still he knows his own business best. There he is, sure enough, my
bold Larry, leaning against the sugarbin in his shirtsleeves watching the bold Larry, leaning against the sugarbin in his shirtsleeves watching the
aproned curate swab up with mop and bucket. Simon Dedalus takes him off aproned curate swab up with mop and bucket. Simon Dedalus takes him off
to a tee with his eyes screwed up. Do you know what I'm going to tell to a tee with his eyes screwed up. Do you know what I'm going to tell
you? What's that, Mr O'Rourke? Do you know what? The Russians, they'd you? What's that, Mr O'Rourke? Do you know what? The Russians, they'd
only be an eight o'clock breakfast for the Japanese. only be an eight o'clock breakfast for the Japanese.
Stop and say a word: about the funeral perhaps. Sad thing about poor Stop and say a word: about the funeral perhaps. Sad thing about poor
Dignam, Mr O'Rourke. Dignam, Mr O'Rourke.
Turning into Dorset street he said freshly in greeting through the Turning into Dorset street he said freshly in greeting through the
doorway: doorway:
--Good day, Mr O'Rourke. --Good day, Mr O'Rourke.
--Good day to you. --Good day to you.
--Lovely weather, sir. --Lovely weather, sir.
--'Tis all that. --'Tis all that.
Where do they get the money? Coming up redheaded curates from the county Where do they get the money? Coming up redheaded curates from the county
Leitrim, rinsing empties and old man in the cellar. Then, lo and behold, Leitrim, rinsing empties and old man in the cellar. Then, lo and behold,
they blossom out as Adam Findlaters or Dan Tallons. Then thin of the they blossom out as Adam Findlaters or Dan Tallons. Then thin of the
competition. General thirst. Good puzzle would be cross Dublin without competition. General thirst. Good puzzle would be cross Dublin without
passing a pub. Save it they can't. Off the drunks perhaps. Put down three passing a pub. Save it they can't. Off the drunks perhaps. Put down three
and carry five. What is that, a bob here and there, dribs and drabs. On and carry five. What is that, a bob here and there, dribs and drabs. On
the wholesale orders perhaps. Doing a double shuffle with the town the wholesale orders perhaps. Doing a double shuffle with the town
travellers. Square it you with the boss and we'll split the job, see? travellers. Square it you with the boss and we'll split the job, see?
How much would that tot to off the porter in the month? Say ten barrels How much would that tot to off the porter in the month? Say ten barrels
of stuff. Say he got ten per cent off. O more. Fifteen. He passed Saint of stuff. Say he got ten per cent off. O more. Fifteen. He passed Saint
Joseph's National school. Brats' clamour. Windows open. Fresh air helps Joseph's National school. Brats' clamour. Windows open. Fresh air helps
memory. Or a lilt. Ahbeesee defeegee kelomen opeecue rustyouvee memory. Or a lilt. Ahbeesee defeegee kelomen opeecue rustyouvee
doubleyou. Boys are they? Yes. Inishturk. Inishark. Inishboffin. At their doubleyou. Boys are they? Yes. Inishturk. Inishark. Inishboffin. At their
joggerfry. Mine. Slieve Bloom. joggerfry. Mine. Slieve Bloom.
He halted before Dlugacz's window, staring at the hanks of sausages, He halted before Dlugacz's window, staring at the hanks of sausages,
polonies, black and white. Fifteen multiplied by. The figures whitened in polonies, black and white. Fifteen multiplied by. The figures whitened in
his mind, unsolved: displeased, he let them fade. The shiny links, packed his mind, unsolved: displeased, he let them fade. The shiny links, packed
with forcemeat, fed his gaze and he breathed in tranquilly the lukewarm with forcemeat, fed his gaze and he breathed in tranquilly the lukewarm
breath of cooked spicy pigs' blood. breath of cooked spicy pigs' blood.
A kidney oozed bloodgouts on the willowpatterned dish: the last. He stood A kidney oozed bloodgouts on the willowpatterned dish: the last. He stood
by the nextdoor girl at the counter. Would she buy it too, calling the by the nextdoor girl at the counter. Would she buy it too, calling the
items from a slip in her hand? Chapped: washingsoda. And a pound and a items from a slip in her hand? Chapped: washingsoda. And a pound and a
half of Denny's sausages. His eyes rested on her vigorous hips. Woods his half of Denny's sausages. His eyes rested on her vigorous hips. Woods his
name is. Wonder what he does. Wife is oldish. New blood. No followers name is. Wonder what he does. Wife is oldish. New blood. No followers
allowed. Strong pair of arms. Whacking a carpet on the clothesline. She allowed. Strong pair of arms. Whacking a carpet on the clothesline. She
does whack it, by George. The way her crooked skirt swings at each whack. does whack it, by George. The way her crooked skirt swings at each whack.
The ferreteyed porkbutcher folded the sausages he had snipped off with The ferreteyed porkbutcher folded the sausages he had snipped off with
blotchy fingers, sausagepink. Sound meat there: like a stallfed heifer. blotchy fingers, sausagepink. Sound meat there: like a stallfed heifer.
He took a page up from the pile of cut sheets: the model farm at He took a page up from the pile of cut sheets: the model farm at
Kinnereth on the lakeshore of Tiberias. Can become ideal winter Kinnereth on the lakeshore of Tiberias. Can become ideal winter
sanatorium. Moses Montefiore. I thought he was. Farmhouse, wall round it, sanatorium. Moses Montefiore. I thought he was. Farmhouse, wall round it,
blurred cattle cropping. He held the page from him: interesting: read it blurred cattle cropping. He held the page from him: interesting: read it
nearer, the title, the blurred cropping cattle, the page rustling. A nearer, the title, the blurred cropping cattle, the page rustling. A
young white heifer. Those mornings in the cattlemarket, the beasts lowing young white heifer. Those mornings in the cattlemarket, the beasts lowing
in their pens, branded sheep, flop and fall of dung, the breeders in in their pens, branded sheep, flop and fall of dung, the breeders in
hobnailed boots trudging through the litter, slapping a palm on a hobnailed boots trudging through the litter, slapping a palm on a
ripemeated hindquarter, there's a prime one, unpeeled switches in their ripemeated hindquarter, there's a prime one, unpeeled switches in their
hands. He held the page aslant patiently, bending his senses and his hands. He held the page aslant patiently, bending his senses and his
will, his soft subject gaze at rest. The crooked skirt swinging, whack by will, his soft subject gaze at rest. The crooked skirt swinging, whack by
whack by whack. whack by whack.
The porkbutcher snapped two sheets from the pile, wrapped up her prime The porkbutcher snapped two sheets from the pile, wrapped up her prime
sausages and made a red grimace. sausages and made a red grimace.
--Now, my miss, he said. --Now, my miss, he said.
She tendered a coin, smiling boldly, holding her thick wrist out. She tendered a coin, smiling boldly, holding her thick wrist out.
--Thank you, my miss. And one shilling threepence change. For you, --Thank you, my miss. And one shilling threepence change. For you,
please? please?
Mr Bloom pointed quickly. To catch up and walk behind her if she went Mr Bloom pointed quickly. To catch up and walk behind her if she went
slowly, behind her moving hams. Pleasant to see first thing in the slowly, behind her moving hams. Pleasant to see first thing in the
morning. Hurry up, damn it. Make hay while the sun shines. She stood morning. Hurry up, damn it. Make hay while the sun shines. She stood
outside the shop in sunlight and sauntered lazily to the right. He sighed outside the shop in sunlight and sauntered lazily to the right. He sighed
down his nose: they never understand. Sodachapped hands. Crusted toenails down his nose: they never understand. Sodachapped hands. Crusted toenails
too. Brown scapulars in tatters, defending her both ways. The sting of too. Brown scapulars in tatters, defending her both ways. The sting of
disregard glowed to weak pleasure within his breast. For another: a disregard glowed to weak pleasure within his breast. For another: a
constable off duty cuddling her in Eccles lane. They like them sizeable. constable off duty cuddling her in Eccles lane. They like them sizeable.
Prime sausage. O please, Mr Policeman, I'm lost in the wood. Prime sausage. O please, Mr Policeman, I'm lost in the wood.
--Threepence, please. --Threepence, please.
His hand accepted the moist tender gland and slid it into a sidepocket. His hand accepted the moist tender gland and slid it into a sidepocket.
Then it fetched up three coins from his trousers' pocket and laid them on Then it fetched up three coins from his trousers' pocket and laid them on
the rubber prickles. They lay, were read quickly and quickly slid, disc the rubber prickles. They lay, were read quickly and quickly slid, disc
by disc, into the till. by disc, into the till.
--Thank you, sir. Another time. --Thank you, sir. Another time.
A speck of eager fire from foxeyes thanked him. He withdrew his gaze A speck of eager fire from foxeyes thanked him. He withdrew his gaze
after an instant. No: better not: another time. after an instant. No: better not: another time.
--Good morning, he said, moving away. --Good morning, he said, moving away.
--Good morning, sir. --Good morning, sir.
No sign. Gone. What matter? No sign. Gone. What matter?
He walked back along Dorset street, reading gravely. Agendath Netaim: He walked back along Dorset street, reading gravely. Agendath Netaim:
planters' company. To purchase waste sandy tracts from Turkish government planters' company. To purchase waste sandy tracts from Turkish government
and plant with eucalyptus trees. Excellent for shade, fuel and and plant with eucalyptus trees. Excellent for shade, fuel and
construction. Orangegroves and immense melonfields north of Jaffa. You construction. Orangegroves and immense melonfields north of Jaffa. You
pay eighty marks and they plant a dunam of land for you with olives, pay eighty marks and they plant a dunam of land for you with olives,
oranges, almonds or citrons. Olives cheaper: oranges need artificial oranges, almonds or citrons. Olives cheaper: oranges need artificial
irrigation. Every year you get a sending of the crop. Your name entered irrigation. Every year you get a sending of the crop. Your name entered
for life as owner in the book of the union. Can pay ten down and the for life as owner in the book of the union. Can pay ten down and the
balance in yearly instalments. Bleibtreustrasse 34, Berlin, W. 15. balance in yearly instalments. Bleibtreustrasse 34, Berlin, W. 15.
Nothing doing. Still an idea behind it. Nothing doing. Still an idea behind it.
He looked at the cattle, blurred in silver heat. Silverpowdered He looked at the cattle, blurred in silver heat. Silverpowdered
olivetrees. Quiet long days: pruning, ripening. Olives are packed in olivetrees. Quiet long days: pruning, ripening. Olives are packed in
jars, eh? I have a few left from Andrews. Molly spitting them out. Knows jars, eh? I have a few left from Andrews. Molly spitting them out. Knows
the taste of them now. Oranges in tissue paper packed in crates. Citrons the taste of them now. Oranges in tissue paper packed in crates. Citrons
too. Wonder is poor Citron still in Saint Kevin's parade. And Mastiansky too. Wonder is poor Citron still in Saint Kevin's parade. And Mastiansky
with the old cither. Pleasant evenings we had then. Molly in Citron's with the old cither. Pleasant evenings we had then. Molly in Citron's
basketchair. Nice to hold, cool waxen fruit, hold in the hand, lift it to basketchair. Nice to hold, cool waxen fruit, hold in the hand, lift it to
the nostrils and smell the perfume. Like that, heavy, sweet, wild the nostrils and smell the perfume. Like that, heavy, sweet, wild
perfume. Always the same, year after year. They fetched high prices too, perfume. Always the same, year after year. They fetched high prices too,
Moisel told me. Arbutus place: Pleasants street: pleasant old times. Must Moisel told me. Arbutus place: Pleasants street: pleasant old times. Must
be without a flaw, he said. Coming all that way: Spain, Gibraltar, be without a flaw, he said. Coming all that way: Spain, Gibraltar,
Mediterranean, the Levant. Crates lined up on the quayside at Jaffa, chap Mediterranean, the Levant. Crates lined up on the quayside at Jaffa, chap
ticking them off in a book, navvies handling them barefoot in soiled ticking them off in a book, navvies handling them barefoot in soiled
dungarees. There's whatdoyoucallhim out of. How do you? Doesn't see. Chap dungarees. There's whatdoyoucallhim out of. How do you? Doesn't see. Chap
you know just to salute bit of a bore. His back is like that Norwegian you know just to salute bit of a bore. His back is like that Norwegian
captain's. Wonder if I'll meet him today. Watering cart. To provoke the captain's. Wonder if I'll meet him today. Watering cart. To provoke the
rain. On earth as it is in heaven. rain. On earth as it is in heaven.
A cloud began to cover the sun slowly, wholly. Grey. Far. A cloud began to cover the sun slowly, wholly. Grey. Far.
No, not like that. A barren land, bare waste. Vulcanic lake, the dead No, not like that. A barren land, bare waste. Vulcanic lake, the dead
sea: no fish, weedless, sunk deep in the earth. No wind could lift those sea: no fish, weedless, sunk deep in the earth. No wind could lift those
waves, grey metal, poisonous foggy waters. Brimstone they called it waves, grey metal, poisonous foggy waters. Brimstone they called it
raining down: the cities of the plain: Sodom, Gomorrah, Edom. All dead raining down: the cities of the plain: Sodom, Gomorrah, Edom. All dead
names. A dead sea in a dead land, grey and old. Old now. It bore the names. A dead sea in a dead land, grey and old. Old now. It bore the
oldest, the first race. A bent hag crossed from Cassidy's, clutching a oldest, the first race. A bent hag crossed from Cassidy's, clutching a
naggin bottle by the neck. The oldest people. Wandered far away over all naggin bottle by the neck. The oldest people. Wandered far away over all
the earth, captivity to captivity, multiplying, dying, being born the earth, captivity to captivity, multiplying, dying, being born
everywhere. It lay there now. Now it could bear no more. Dead: an old everywhere. It lay there now. Now it could bear no more. Dead: an old
woman's: the grey sunken cunt of the world. woman's: the grey sunken cunt of the world.
Desolation. Desolation.
Grey horror seared his flesh. Folding the page into his pocket he turned Grey horror seared his flesh. Folding the page into his pocket he turned
into Eccles street, hurrying homeward. Cold oils slid along his veins, into Eccles street, hurrying homeward. Cold oils slid along his veins,
chilling his blood: age crusting him with a salt cloak. Well, I am here chilling his blood: age crusting him with a salt cloak. Well, I am here
now. Yes, I am here now. Morning mouth bad images. Got up wrong side of now. Yes, I am here now. Morning mouth bad images. Got up wrong side of
the bed. Must begin again those Sandow's exercises. On the hands down. the bed. Must begin again those Sandow's exercises. On the hands down.
Blotchy brown brick houses. Number eighty still unlet. Why is that? Blotchy brown brick houses. Number eighty still unlet. Why is that?
Valuation is only twenty-eight. Towers, Battersby, North, MacArthur: Valuation is only twenty-eight. Towers, Battersby, North, MacArthur:
parlour windows plastered with bills. Plasters on a sore eye. To smell parlour windows plastered with bills. Plasters on a sore eye. To smell
the gentle smoke of tea, fume of the pan, sizzling butter. Be near her the gentle smoke of tea, fume of the pan, sizzling butter. Be near her
ample bedwarmed flesh. Yes, yes. ample bedwarmed flesh. Yes, yes.
Quick warm sunlight came running from Berkeley road, swiftly, in slim Quick warm sunlight came running from Berkeley road, swiftly, in slim
sandals, along the brightening footpath. Runs, she runs to meet me, a sandals, along the brightening footpath. Runs, she runs to meet me, a
girl with gold hair on the wind. girl with gold hair on the wind.
Two letters and a card lay on the hallfloor. He stooped and gathered Two letters and a card lay on the hallfloor. He stooped and gathered
them. Mrs Marion Bloom. His quickened heart slowed at once. Bold hand. them. Mrs Marion Bloom. His quickened heart slowed at once. Bold hand.
Mrs Marion. Mrs Marion.
--Poldy! --Poldy!
Entering the bedroom he halfclosed his eyes and walked through warm Entering the bedroom he halfclosed his eyes and walked through warm
yellow twilight towards her tousled head. yellow twilight towards her tousled head.
--Who are the letters for? --Who are the letters for?
He looked at them. Mullingar. Milly. He looked at them. Mullingar. Milly.
--A letter for me from Milly, he said carefully, and a card to you. And a --A letter for me from Milly, he said carefully, and a card to you. And a
letter for you. letter for you.
He laid her card and letter on the twill bedspread near the curve of her He laid her card and letter on the twill bedspread near the curve of her
knees. knees.
--Do you want the blind up? --Do you want the blind up?
Letting the blind up by gentle tugs halfway his backward eye saw her Letting the blind up by gentle tugs halfway his backward eye saw her
glance at the letter and tuck it under her pillow. glance at the letter and tuck it under her pillow.
--That do? he asked, turning. --That do? he asked, turning.
She was reading the card, propped on her elbow. She was reading the card, propped on her elbow.
--She got the things, she said. --She got the things, she said.
He waited till she had laid the card aside and curled herself back slowly He waited till she had laid the card aside and curled herself back slowly
with a snug sigh. with a snug sigh.
--Hurry up with that tea, she said. I'm parched. --Hurry up with that tea, she said. I'm parched.
--The kettle is boiling, he said. --The kettle is boiling, he said.
But he delayed to clear the chair: her striped petticoat, tossed soiled But he delayed to clear the chair: her striped petticoat, tossed soiled
linen: and lifted all in an armful on to the foot of the bed. linen: and lifted all in an armful on to the foot of the bed.
As he went down the kitchen stairs she called: As he went down the kitchen stairs she called:
--Poldy! --Poldy!
--What? --What?
--Scald the teapot. --Scald the teapot.
On the boil sure enough: a plume of steam from the spout. He scalded and On the boil sure enough: a plume of steam from the spout. He scalded and
rinsed out the teapot and put in four full spoons of tea, tilting the rinsed out the teapot and put in four full spoons of tea, tilting the
kettle then to let the water flow in. Having set it to draw he took off kettle then to let the water flow in. Having set it to draw he took off
the kettle, crushed the pan flat on the live coals and watched the lump the kettle, crushed the pan flat on the live coals and watched the lump
of butter slide and melt. While he unwrapped the kidney the cat mewed of butter slide and melt. While he unwrapped the kidney the cat mewed
hungrily against him. Give her too much meat she won't mouse. Say they hungrily against him. Give her too much meat she won't mouse. Say they
won't eat pork. Kosher. Here. He let the bloodsmeared paper fall to her won't eat pork. Kosher. Here. He let the bloodsmeared paper fall to her
and dropped the kidney amid the sizzling butter sauce. Pepper. He and dropped the kidney amid the sizzling butter sauce. Pepper. He
sprinkled it through his fingers ringwise from the chipped eggcup. sprinkled it through his fingers ringwise from the chipped eggcup.
Then he slit open his letter, glancing down the page and over. Thanks: Then he slit open his letter, glancing down the page and over. Thanks:
new tam: Mr Coghlan: lough Owel picnic: young student: Blazes Boylan's new tam: Mr Coghlan: lough Owel picnic: young student: Blazes Boylan's
seaside girls. seaside girls.
The tea was drawn. He filled his own moustachecup, sham crown The tea was drawn. He filled his own moustachecup, sham crown
Derby, smiling. Silly Milly's birthday gift. Only five she was then. No, Derby, smiling. Silly Milly's birthday gift. Only five she was then. No,
wait: four. I gave her the amberoid necklace she broke. Putting pieces of wait: four. I gave her the amberoid necklace she broke. Putting pieces of
folded brown paper in the letterbox for her. He smiled, pouring. folded brown paper in the letterbox for her. He smiled, pouring.
    O, MILLY BLOOM, YOU ARE MY DARLING.     O, MILLY BLOOM, YOU ARE MY DARLING.
    YOU ARE MY LOOKINGGLASS FROM NIGHT TO MORNING.     YOU ARE MY LOOKINGGLASS FROM NIGHT TO MORNING.
    I'D RATHER HAVE YOU WITHOUT A FARTHING     I'D RATHER HAVE YOU WITHOUT A FARTHING
    THAN KATEY KEOGH WITH HER ASS AND GARDEN.     THAN KATEY KEOGH WITH HER ASS AND GARDEN.
Poor old professor Goodwin. Dreadful old case. Still he was a courteous Poor old professor Goodwin. Dreadful old case. Still he was a courteous
old chap. Oldfashioned way he used to bow Molly off the platform. And the old chap. Oldfashioned way he used to bow Molly off the platform. And the
little mirror in his silk hat. The night Milly brought it into the little mirror in his silk hat. The night Milly brought it into the
parlour. O, look what I found in professor Goodwin's hat! All we laughed. parlour. O, look what I found in professor Goodwin's hat! All we laughed.
Sex breaking out even then. Pert little piece she was. Sex breaking out even then. Pert little piece she was.
He prodded a fork into the kidney and slapped it over: then fitted the He prodded a fork into the kidney and slapped it over: then fitted the
teapot on the tray. Its hump bumped as he took it up. Everything on it? teapot on the tray. Its hump bumped as he took it up. Everything on it?
Bread and butter, four, sugar, spoon, her cream. Yes. He carried it Bread and butter, four, sugar, spoon, her cream. Yes. He carried it
upstairs, his thumb hooked in the teapot handle. upstairs, his thumb hooked in the teapot handle.
Nudging the door open with his knee he carried the tray in and set it on Nudging the door open with his knee he carried the tray in and set it on
the chair by the bedhead. the chair by the bedhead.
--What a time you were! she said. --What a time you were! she said.
She set the brasses jingling as she raised herself briskly, an elbow on She set the brasses jingling as she raised herself briskly, an elbow on
the pillow. He looked calmly down on her bulk and between her large soft the pillow. He looked calmly down on her bulk and between her large soft
bubs, sloping within her nightdress like a shegoat's udder. The warmth of bubs, sloping within her nightdress like a shegoat's udder. The warmth of
her couched body rose on the air, mingling with the fragrance of the tea her couched body rose on the air, mingling with the fragrance of the tea
she poured. she poured.
A strip of torn envelope peeped from under the dimpled pillow. In the act A strip of torn envelope peeped from under the dimpled pillow. In the act
of going he stayed to straighten the bedspread. of going he stayed to straighten the bedspread.
--Who was the letter from? he asked. --Who was the letter from? he asked.
Bold hand. Marion. Bold hand. Marion.
--O, Boylan, she said. He's bringing the programme. --O, Boylan, she said. He's bringing the programme.
--What are you singing? --What are you singing?
--LA CI DAREM with J. C. Doyle, she said, and LOVE'S OLD SWEET SONG. --LA CI DAREM with J. C. Doyle, she said, and LOVE'S OLD SWEET SONG.
Her full lips, drinking, smiled. Rather stale smell that incense leaves Her full lips, drinking, smiled. Rather stale smell that incense leaves
next day. Like foul flowerwater. next day. Like foul flowerwater.
--Would you like the window open a little? --Would you like the window open a little?
She doubled a slice of bread into her mouth, asking: She doubled a slice of bread into her mouth, asking:
--What time is the funeral? --What time is the funeral?
--Eleven, I think, he answered. I didn't see the paper. --Eleven, I think, he answered. I didn't see the paper.
Following the pointing of her finger he took up a leg of her soiled Following the pointing of her finger he took up a leg of her soiled
drawers from the bed. No? Then, a twisted grey garter looped round a drawers from the bed. No? Then, a twisted grey garter looped round a
stocking: rumpled, shiny sole. stocking: rumpled, shiny sole.
--No: that book. --No: that book.
Other stocking. Her petticoat. Other stocking. Her petticoat.
--It must have fell down, she said. --It must have fell down, she said.
He felt here and there. VOGLIO E NON VORREI. Wonder if she pronounces He felt here and there. VOGLIO E NON VORREI. Wonder if she pronounces
that right: VOGLIO. Not in the bed. Must have slid down. He stooped and that right: VOGLIO. Not in the bed. Must have slid down. He stooped and
lifted the valance. The book, fallen, sprawled against the bulge of the lifted the valance. The book, fallen, sprawled against the bulge of the
orangekeyed chamberpot. orangekeyed chamberpot.
--Show here, she said. I put a mark in it. There's a word I wanted to ask --Show here, she said. I put a mark in it. There's a word I wanted to ask
you. you.
She swallowed a draught of tea from her cup held by nothandle and, having She swallowed a draught of tea from her cup held by nothandle and, having
wiped her fingertips smartly on the blanket, began to search the text wiped her fingertips smartly on the blanket, began to search the text
with the hairpin till she reached the word. with the hairpin till she reached the word.
--Met him what? he asked. --Met him what? he asked.
--Here, she said. What does that mean? --Here, she said. What does that mean?
He leaned downward and read near her polished thumbnail. He leaned downward and read near her polished thumbnail.
--Metempsychosis? --Metempsychosis?
--Yes. Who's he when he's at home? --Yes. Who's he when he's at home?
--Metempsychosis, he said, frowning. It's Greek: from the Greek. That --Metempsychosis, he said, frowning. It's Greek: from the Greek. That
means the transmigration of souls. means the transmigration of souls.
--O, rocks! she said. Tell us in plain words. --O, rocks! she said. Tell us in plain words.
He smiled, glancing askance at her mocking eyes. The same young eyes. The He smiled, glancing askance at her mocking eyes. The same young eyes. The
first night after the charades. Dolphin's Barn. He turned over the first night after the charades. Dolphin's Barn. He turned over the
smudged pages. RUBY: THE PRIDE OF THE RING. Hello. Illustration. Fierce smudged pages. RUBY: THE PRIDE OF THE RING. Hello. Illustration. Fierce
Italian with carriagewhip. Must be Ruby pride of the on the floor naked. Italian with carriagewhip. Must be Ruby pride of the on the floor naked.
Sheet kindly lent. THE MONSTER MAFFEI DESISTED AND FLUNG HIS VICTIM FROM Sheet kindly lent. THE MONSTER MAFFEI DESISTED AND FLUNG HIS VICTIM FROM
HIM WITH AN OATH. Cruelty behind it all. Doped animals. Trapeze at HIM WITH AN OATH. Cruelty behind it all. Doped animals. Trapeze at
Hengler's. Had to look the other way. Mob gaping. Break your neck and Hengler's. Had to look the other way. Mob gaping. Break your neck and
we'll break our sides. Families of them. Bone them young so they we'll break our sides. Families of them. Bone them young so they
metamspychosis. That we live after death. Our souls. That a man's soul metamspychosis. That we live after death. Our souls. That a man's soul
after he dies. Dignam's soul ... after he dies. Dignam's soul ...
--Did you finish it? he asked. --Did you finish it? he asked.
--Yes, she said. There's nothing smutty in it. Is she in love with the --Yes, she said. There's nothing smutty in it. Is she in love with the
first fellow all the time? first fellow all the time?
--Never read it. Do you want another? --Never read it. Do you want another?
--Yes. Get another of Paul de Kock's. Nice name he has. --Yes. Get another of Paul de Kock's. Nice name he has.
She poured more tea into her cup, watching it flow sideways. She poured more tea into her cup, watching it flow sideways.
Must get that Capel street library book renewed or they'll write to Must get that Capel street library book renewed or they'll write to
Kearney, my guarantor. Reincarnation: that's the word. Kearney, my guarantor. Reincarnation: that's the word.
--Some people believe, he said, that we go on living in another body --Some people believe, he said, that we go on living in another body
after death, that we lived before. They call it reincarnation. That we after death, that we lived before. They call it reincarnation. That we
all lived before on the earth thousands of years ago or some other all lived before on the earth thousands of years ago or some other
planet. They say we have forgotten it. Some say they remember their past planet. They say we have forgotten it. Some say they remember their past
lives. lives.
The sluggish cream wound curdling spirals through her tea. Bette remind The sluggish cream wound curdling spirals through her tea. Bette remind
her of the word: metempsychosis. An example would be better. An example? her of the word: metempsychosis. An example would be better. An example?
The BATH OF THE NYMPH over the bed. Given away with the Easter number of The BATH OF THE NYMPH over the bed. Given away with the Easter number of
PHOTO BITS: Splendid masterpiece in art colours. Tea before you put milk PHOTO BITS: Splendid masterpiece in art colours. Tea before you put milk
in. Not unlike her with her hair down: slimmer. Three and six I gave for in. Not unlike her with her hair down: slimmer. Three and six I gave for
the frame. She said it would look nice over the bed. Naked nymphs: the frame. She said it would look nice over the bed. Naked nymphs:
Greece: and for instance all the people that lived then. Greece: and for instance all the people that lived then.
He turned the pages back. He turned the pages back.
--Metempsychosis, he said, is what the ancient Greeks called it. They --Metempsychosis, he said, is what the ancient Greeks called it. They
used to believe you could be changed into an animal or a tree, for used to believe you could be changed into an animal or a tree, for
instance. What they called nymphs, for example. instance. What they called nymphs, for example.
Her spoon ceased to stir up the sugar. She gazed straight before her, Her spoon ceased to stir up the sugar. She gazed straight before her,
inhaling through her arched nostrils. inhaling through her arched nostrils.
--There's a smell of burn, she said. Did you leave anything on the fire? --There's a smell of burn, she said. Did you leave anything on the fire?
--The kidney! he cried suddenly. --The kidney! he cried suddenly.
He fitted the book roughly into his inner pocket and, stubbing his toes He fitted the book roughly into his inner pocket and, stubbing his toes
against the broken commode, hurried out towards the smell, stepping against the broken commode, hurried out towards the smell, stepping
hastily down the stairs with a flurried stork's legs. Pungent smoke shot hastily down the stairs with a flurried stork's legs. Pungent smoke shot
up in an angry jet from a side of the pan. By prodding a prong of the up in an angry jet from a side of the pan. By prodding a prong of the
fork under the kidney he detached it and turned it turtle on its back. fork under the kidney he detached it and turned it turtle on its back.
Only a little burnt. He tossed it off the pan on to a plate and let the Only a little burnt. He tossed it off the pan on to a plate and let the
scanty brown gravy trickle over it. scanty brown gravy trickle over it.
Cup of tea now. He sat down, cut and buttered a slice of the loaf. He Cup of tea now. He sat down, cut and buttered a slice of the loaf. He
shore away the burnt flesh and flung it to the cat. Then he put a forkful shore away the burnt flesh and flung it to the cat. Then he put a forkful
into his mouth, chewing with discernment the toothsome pliant meat. Done into his mouth, chewing with discernment the toothsome pliant meat. Done
to a turn. A mouthful of tea. Then he cut away dies of bread, sopped one to a turn. A mouthful of tea. Then he cut away dies of bread, sopped one
in the gravy and put it in his mouth. What was that about some young in the gravy and put it in his mouth. What was that about some young
student and a picnic? He creased out the letter at his side, reading it student and a picnic? He creased out the letter at his side, reading it
slowly as he chewed, sopping another die of bread in the gravy and slowly as he chewed, sopping another die of bread in the gravy and
raising it to his mouth. raising it to his mouth.
    Dearest Papli     Dearest Papli
Thanks ever so much for the lovely birthday present. It suits me Thanks ever so much for the lovely birthday present. It suits me
splendid. Everyone says I am quite the belle in my new tam. I got mummy's splendid. Everyone says I am quite the belle in my new tam. I got mummy's
Iovely box of creams and am writing. They are lovely. I am getting on Iovely box of creams and am writing. They are lovely. I am getting on
swimming in the photo business now. Mr Coghlan took one of me and Mrs. swimming in the photo business now. Mr Coghlan took one of me and Mrs.
Will send when developed. We did great biz yesterday. Fair day and all Will send when developed. We did great biz yesterday. Fair day and all
the beef to the heels were in. We are going to lough Owel on Monday with the beef to the heels were in. We are going to lough Owel on Monday with
a few friends to make a scrap picnic. Give my love to mummy and to a few friends to make a scrap picnic. Give my love to mummy and to
yourself a big kiss and thanks. I hear them at the piano downstairs. yourself a big kiss and thanks. I hear them at the piano downstairs.
There is to be a concert in the Greville Arms on Saturday. There is a There is to be a concert in the Greville Arms on Saturday. There is a
young student comes here some evenings named Bannon his cousins or young student comes here some evenings named Bannon his cousins or
something are big swells and he sings Boylan's (I was on the pop of something are big swells and he sings Boylan's (I was on the pop of
writing Blazes Boylan's) song about those seaside girls. Tell him silly writing Blazes Boylan's) song about those seaside girls. Tell him silly
Milly sends my best respects. I must now close with fondest love Milly sends my best respects. I must now close with fondest love
Your fond daughter,     MILLY. Your fond daughter,     MILLY.
P. S. Excuse bad writing am in hurry. Byby.     M. P. S. Excuse bad writing am in hurry. Byby.     M.
Fifteen yesterday. Curious, fifteenth of the month too. Her first Fifteen yesterday. Curious, fifteenth of the month too. Her first
birthday away from home. Separation. Remember the summer morning she was birthday away from home. Separation. Remember the summer morning she was
born, running to knock up Mrs Thornton in Denzille street. Jolly old born, running to knock up Mrs Thornton in Denzille street. Jolly old
woman. Lot of babies she must have helped into the world. She knew from woman. Lot of babies she must have helped into the world. She knew from
the first poor little Rudy wouldn't live. Well, God is good, sir. She the first poor little Rudy wouldn't live. Well, God is good, sir. She
knew at once. He would be eleven now if he had lived. knew at once. He would be eleven now if he had lived.
His vacant face stared pityingly at the postscript. Excuse bad writing. His vacant face stared pityingly at the postscript. Excuse bad writing.
Hurry. Piano downstairs. Coming out of her shell. Row with her in the XL Hurry. Piano downstairs. Coming out of her shell. Row with her in the XL
Cafe about the bracelet. Wouldn't eat her cakes or speak or look. Cafe about the bracelet. Wouldn't eat her cakes or speak or look.
Saucebox. He sopped other dies of bread in the gravy and ate piece after Saucebox. He sopped other dies of bread in the gravy and ate piece after
piece of kidney. Twelve and six a week. Not much. Still, she might do piece of kidney. Twelve and six a week. Not much. Still, she might do
worse. Music hall stage. Young student. He drank a draught of cooler tea worse. Music hall stage. Young student. He drank a draught of cooler tea
to wash down his meal. Then he read the letter again: twice. to wash down his meal. Then he read the letter again: twice.
O, well: she knows how to mind herself. But if not? No, nothing has O, well: she knows how to mind herself. But if not? No, nothing has
happened. Of course it might. Wait in any case till it does. A wild piece happened. Of course it might. Wait in any case till it does. A wild piece
of goods. Her slim legs running up the staircase. Destiny. Ripening now. of goods. Her slim legs running up the staircase. Destiny. Ripening now.
Vain: very. Vain: very.
He smiled with troubled affection at the kitchen window. Day I caught her He smiled with troubled affection at the kitchen window. Day I caught her
in the street pinching her cheeks to make them red. Anemic a little. Was in the street pinching her cheeks to make them red. Anemic a little. Was
given milk too long. On the ERIN'S KING that day round the Kish. Damned given milk too long. On the ERIN'S KING that day round the Kish. Damned
old tub pitching about. Not a bit funky. Her pale blue scarf loose in the old tub pitching about. Not a bit funky. Her pale blue scarf loose in the
wind with her hair. wind with her hair.
    ALL DIMPLED CHEEKS AND CURLS,     ALL DIMPLED CHEEKS AND CURLS,
    YOUR HEAD IT SIMPLY SWIRLS.     YOUR HEAD IT SIMPLY SWIRLS.
Seaside girls. Torn envelope. Hands stuck in his trousers' pockets, Seaside girls. Torn envelope. Hands stuck in his trousers' pockets,
jarvey off for the day, singing. Friend of the family. Swurls, he says. jarvey off for the day, singing. Friend of the family. Swurls, he says.
Pier with lamps, summer evening, band, Pier with lamps, summer evening, band,
Fancy being his wife. Wonder he had the gumption to propose to any girl. Fancy being his wife. Wonder he had the gumption to propose to any girl.
Come out and live in the graveyard. Dangle that before her. It might Come out and live in the graveyard. Dangle that before her. It might
thrill her first. Courting death ... Shades of night hovering here with thrill her first. Courting death ... Shades of night hovering here with
all the dead stretched about. The shadows of the tombs when churchyards all the dead stretched about. The shadows of the tombs when churchyards
yawn and Daniel O'Connell must be a descendant I suppose who is this used yawn and Daniel O'Connell must be a descendant I suppose who is this used
to say he was a queer breedy man great catholic all the same like a big to say he was a queer breedy man great catholic all the same like a big
He asked me to. He asked me to.
--Charley, Hynes said writing. I know. He was on the FREEMAN once. --Charley, Hynes said writing. I know. He was on the FREEMAN once.
So he was before he got the job in the morgue under Louis Byrne. So he was before he got the job in the morgue under Louis Byrne.
Good idea a postmortem for doctors. Find out what they imagine they Good idea a postmortem for doctors. Find out what they imagine they
know. He died of a Tuesday. Got the run. Levanted with the cash of a few know. He died of a Tuesday. Got the run. Levanted with the cash of a few
ads. Charley, you're my darling. That was why he asked me to. O well, ads. Charley, you're my darling. That was why he asked me to. O well,
does no harm. I saw to that, M'Coy. Thanks, old chap: much obliged. does no harm. I saw to that, M'Coy. Thanks, old chap: much obliged.
Leave him under an obligation: costs nothing. Leave him under an obligation: costs nothing.
--And tell us, Hynes said, do you know that fellow in the, fellow was --And tell us, Hynes said, do you know that fellow in the, fellow was
over there in the ... over there in the ...
He looked around. He looked around.
--Macintosh. Yes, I saw him, Mr Bloom said. Where is he now? --Macintosh. Yes, I saw him, Mr Bloom said. Where is he now?
--M'Intosh, Hynes said scribbling. I don't know who he is. Is that --M'Intosh, Hynes said scribbling. I don't know who he is. Is that
his name? his name?
He moved away, looking about him. He moved away, looking about him.
--No, Mr Bloom began, turning and stopping. I say, Hynes! --No, Mr Bloom began, turning and stopping. I say, Hynes!
Didn't hear. What? Where has he disappeared to? Not a sign. Well of Didn't hear. What? Where has he disappeared to? Not a sign. Well of
all the. Has anybody here seen? Kay ee double ell. Become invisible. Good all the. Has anybody here seen? Kay ee double ell. Become invisible. Good
Lord, what became of him? Lord, what became of him?
A seventh gravedigger came beside Mr Bloom to take up an idle spade. A seventh gravedigger came beside Mr Bloom to take up an idle spade.
--O, excuse me! --O, excuse me!
He stepped aside nimbly. He stepped aside nimbly.
Clay, brown, damp, began to be seen in the hole. It rose. Nearly over. Clay, brown, damp, began to be seen in the hole. It rose. Nearly over.
A mound of damp clods rose more, rose, and the gravediggers rested their A mound of damp clods rose more, rose, and the gravediggers rested their
spades. All uncovered again for a few instants. The boy propped his wreath spades. All uncovered again for a few instants. The boy propped his wreath
against a corner: the brother-in-law his on a lump. The gravediggers put against a corner: the brother-in-law his on a lump. The gravediggers put
on their caps and carried their earthy spades towards the barrow. Then on their caps and carried their earthy spades towards the barrow. Then
knocked the blades lightly on the turf: clean. One bent to pluck from the knocked the blades lightly on the turf: clean. One bent to pluck from the
The Sacred Heart that is: showing it. Heart on his sleeve. Ought to be The Sacred Heart that is: showing it. Heart on his sleeve. Ought to be
sideways and red it should be painted like a real heart. Ireland was sideways and red it should be painted like a real heart. Ireland was
dedicated to it or whatever that. Seems anything but pleased. Why this dedicated to it or whatever that. Seems anything but pleased. Why this
infliction? Would birds come then and peck like the boy with the basket of infliction? Would birds come then and peck like the boy with the basket of
fruit but he said no because they ought to have been afraid of the boy. fruit but he said no because they ought to have been afraid of the boy.
Apollo that was. Apollo that was.
How many! All these here once walked round Dublin. Faithful departed. How many! All these here once walked round Dublin. Faithful departed.
As you are now so once were we. As you are now so once were we.
Besides how could you remember everybody? Eyes, walk, voice. Well, Besides how could you remember everybody? Eyes, walk, voice. Well,
the voice, yes: gramophone. Have a gramophone in every grave or keep it the voice, yes: gramophone. Have a gramophone in every grave or keep it
in the house. After dinner on a Sunday. Put on poor old greatgrandfather. in the house. After dinner on a Sunday. Put on poor old greatgrandfather.
Kraahraark! Hellohellohello amawfullyglad kraark awfullygladaseeagain Kraahraark! Hellohellohello amawfullyglad kraark awfullygladaseeagain
hellohello amawf krpthsth. Remind you of the voice like the photograph hellohello amawf krpthsth. Remind you of the voice like the photograph
reminds you of the face. Otherwise you couldn't remember the face after reminds you of the face. Otherwise you couldn't remember the face after
fifteen years, say. For instance who? For instance some fellow that died fifteen years, say. For instance who? For instance some fellow that died
when I was in Wisdom Hely's. when I was in Wisdom Hely's.
Rtststr! A rattle of pebbles. Wait. Stop! Rtststr! A rattle of pebbles. Wait. Stop!
He looked down intently into a stone crypt. Some animal. Wait. He looked down intently into a stone crypt. Some animal. Wait.
There he goes. There he goes.
An obese grey rat toddled along the side of the crypt, moving the An obese grey rat toddled along the side of the crypt, moving the
pebbles. An old stager: greatgrandfather: he knows the ropes. The grey pebbles. An old stager: greatgrandfather: he knows the ropes. The grey
--John O'Connell, Mr Power said pleased. He never forgets a friend. --John O'Connell, Mr Power said pleased. He never forgets a friend.
Mr O'Connell shook all their hands in silence. Mr Dedalus said: Mr O'Connell shook all their hands in silence. Mr Dedalus said:
--I am come to pay you another visit. --I am come to pay you another visit.
--My dear Simon, the caretaker answered in a low voice. I don't want your --My dear Simon, the caretaker answered in a low voice. I don't want your
custom at all. custom at all.
Saluting Ned Lambert and John Henry Menton he walked on at Martin Saluting Ned Lambert and John Henry Menton he walked on at Martin
Cunningham's side puzzling two long keys at his back. Cunningham's side puzzling two long keys at his back.
--Did you hear that one, he asked them, about Mulcahy from the Coombe? --Did you hear that one, he asked them, about Mulcahy from the Coombe?
--I did not, Martin Cunningham said. --I did not, Martin Cunningham said.
They bent their silk hats in concert and Hynes inclined his ear. The They bent their silk hats in concert and Hynes inclined his ear. The
caretaker hung his thumbs in the loops of his gold watchchain and spoke in caretaker hung his thumbs in the loops of his gold watchchain and spoke in
a discreet tone to their vacant smiles. a discreet tone to their vacant smiles.
--They tell the story, he said, that two drunks came out here one foggy --They tell the story, he said, that two drunks came out here one foggy
evening to look for the grave of a friend of theirs. They asked for evening to look for the grave of a friend of theirs. They asked for
Mulcahy from the Coombe and were told where he was buried. After traipsing Mulcahy from the Coombe and were told where he was buried. After traipsing
about in the fog they found the grave sure enough. One of the drunks spelt about in the fog they found the grave sure enough. One of the drunks spelt
out the name: Terence Mulcahy. The other drunk was blinking up at a statue out the name: Terence Mulcahy. The other drunk was blinking up at a statue
of Our Saviour the widow had got put up. of Our Saviour the widow had got put up.
The caretaker blinked up at one of the sepulchres they passed. He The caretaker blinked up at one of the sepulchres they passed. He
resumed: resumed:
--And, after blinking up at the sacred figure, NOT A BLOODY BIT LIKE THE --And, after blinking up at the sacred figure, NOT A BLOODY BIT LIKE THE
MAN, says he. THAT'S NOT MULCAHY, says he, WHOEVER DONE IT. MAN, says he. THAT'S NOT MULCAHY, says he, WHOEVER DONE IT.
Rewarded by smiles he fell back and spoke with Corny Kelleher, accepting Rewarded by smiles he fell back and spoke with Corny Kelleher, accepting
the dockets given him, turning them over and scanning them as he walked. the dockets given him, turning them over and scanning them as he walked.
--That's all done with a purpose, Martin Cunningham explained to Hynes. --That's all done with a purpose, Martin Cunningham explained to Hynes.
--I know, Hynes said. I know that. --I know, Hynes said. I know that.
--To cheer a fellow up, Martin Cunningham said. It's pure goodheartedness: --To cheer a fellow up, Martin Cunningham said. It's pure goodheartedness:
damn the thing else. damn the thing else.
Mr Bloom admired the caretaker's prosperous bulk. All want to be on Mr Bloom admired the caretaker's prosperous bulk. All want to be on
good terms with him. Decent fellow, John O'Connell, real good sort. Keys: good terms with him. Decent fellow, John O'Connell, real good sort. Keys:
like Keyes's ad: no fear of anyone getting out. No passout checks. HABEAS like Keyes's ad: no fear of anyone getting out. No passout checks. HABEAS
CORPUS. I must see about that ad after the funeral. Did I write CORPUS. I must see about that ad after the funeral. Did I write
Ballsbridge on the envelope I took to cover when she disturbed me writing Ballsbridge on the envelope I took to cover when she disturbed me writing
to Martha? Hope it's not chucked in the dead letter office. Be the better to Martha? Hope it's not chucked in the dead letter office. Be the better
of a shave. Grey sprouting beard. That's the first sign when the hairs of a shave. Grey sprouting beard. That's the first sign when the hairs
come out grey. And temper getting cross. Silver threads among the grey. come out grey. And temper getting cross. Silver threads among the grey.
Fancy being his wife. Wonder he had the gumption to propose to any girl. Fancy being his wife. Wonder he had the gumption to propose to any girl.
Come out and live in the graveyard. Dangle that before her. It might Come out and live in the graveyard. Dangle that before her. It might
thrill her first. Courting death ... Shades of night hovering here with thrill her first. Courting death ... Shades of night hovering here with
all the dead stretched about. The shadows of the tombs when churchyards all the dead stretched about. The shadows of the tombs when churchyards
yawn and Daniel O'Connell must be a descendant I suppose who is this used yawn and Daniel O'Connell must be a descendant I suppose who is this used
to say he was a queer breedy man great catholic all the same like a big to say he was a queer breedy man great catholic all the same like a big
giant in the dark. Will o' the wisp. Gas of graves. Want to keep her mind giant in the dark. Will o' the wisp. Gas of graves. Want to keep her mind
off it to conceive at all. Women especially are so touchy. Tell her a off it to conceive at all. Women especially are so touchy. Tell her a
ghost story in bed to make her sleep. Have you ever seen a ghost? Well, I ghost story in bed to make her sleep. Have you ever seen a ghost? Well, I
have. It was a pitchdark night. The clock was on the stroke of twelve. have. It was a pitchdark night. The clock was on the stroke of twelve.
Still they'd kiss all right if properly keyed up. Whores in Turkish Still they'd kiss all right if properly keyed up. Whores in Turkish
graveyards. Learn anything if taken young. You might pick up a young graveyards. Learn anything if taken young. You might pick up a young
widow here. Men like that. Love among the tombstones. Romeo. Spice of widow here. Men like that. Love among the tombstones. Romeo. Spice of
pleasure. In the midst of death we are in life. Both ends meet. pleasure. In the midst of death we are in life. Both ends meet.
Tantalising for the poor dead. Smell of grilled beefsteaks to the Tantalising for the poor dead. Smell of grilled beefsteaks to the
starving. Gnawing their vitals. Desire to grig people. Molly wanting to starving. Gnawing their vitals. Desire to grig people. Molly wanting to
do it at the window. Eight children he has anyway. do it at the window. Eight children he has anyway.
He has seen a fair share go under in his time, lying around him field He has seen a fair share go under in his time, lying around him field
after field. Holy fields. More room if they buried them standing. Sitting after field. Holy fields. More room if they buried them standing. Sitting
or kneeling you couldn't. Standing? His head might come up some day above or kneeling you couldn't. Standing? His head might come up some day above
ground in a landslip with his hand pointing. All honeycombed the ground ground in a landslip with his hand pointing. All honeycombed the ground
must be: oblong cells. And very neat he keeps it too: trim grass and must be: oblong cells. And very neat he keeps it too: trim grass and
edgings. His garden Major Gamble calls Mount Jerome. Well, so it is. edgings. His garden Major Gamble calls Mount Jerome. Well, so it is.
Ought to be flowers of sleep. Chinese cemeteries with giant poppies Ought to be flowers of sleep. Chinese cemeteries with giant poppies
growing produce the best opium Mastiansky told me. The Botanic Gardens growing produce the best opium Mastiansky told me. The Botanic Gardens
are just over there. It's the blood sinking in the earth gives new life. are just over there. It's the blood sinking in the earth gives new life.
Same idea those jews they said killed the christian boy. Every man Same idea those jews they said killed the christian boy. Every man
his price. Well preserved fat corpse, gentleman, epicure, invaluable his price. Well preserved fat corpse, gentleman, epicure, invaluable
for fruit garden. A bargain. By carcass of William Wilkinson, auditor for fruit garden. A bargain. By carcass of William Wilkinson, auditor
and accountant, lately deceased, three pounds thirteen and six. and accountant, lately deceased, three pounds thirteen and six.
With thanks. With thanks.
I daresay the soil would be quite fat with corpsemanure, bones, flesh, I daresay the soil would be quite fat with corpsemanure, bones, flesh,
nails. Charnelhouses. Dreadful. Turning green and pink decomposing. Rot nails. Charnelhouses. Dreadful. Turning green and pink decomposing. Rot
quick in damp earth. The lean old ones tougher. Then a kind of a tallowy quick in damp earth. The lean old ones tougher. Then a kind of a tallowy
kind of a cheesy. Then begin to get black, black treacle oozing out of kind of a cheesy. Then begin to get black, black treacle oozing out of
them. Then dried up. Deathmoths. Of course the cells or whatever they are them. Then dried up. Deathmoths. Of course the cells or whatever they are
go on living. Changing about. Live for ever practically. Nothing to feed go on living. Changing about. Live for ever practically. Nothing to feed
on feed on themselves. on feed on themselves.
But they must breed a devil of a lot of maggots. Soil must be simply But they must breed a devil of a lot of maggots. Soil must be simply
swirling with them. Your head it simply swurls. Those pretty little swirling with them. Your head it simply swurls. Those pretty little
seaside gurls. He looks cheerful enough over it. Gives him a sense of seaside gurls. He looks cheerful enough over it. Gives him a sense of
power seeing all the others go under first. Wonder how he looks at life. power seeing all the others go under first. Wonder how he looks at life.
Cracking his jokes too: warms the cockles of his heart. The one about the Cracking his jokes too: warms the cockles of his heart. The one about the
bulletin. Spurgeon went to heaven 4 a.m. this morning. 11 p.m. bulletin. Spurgeon went to heaven 4 a.m. this morning. 11 p.m.
(closing time). Not arrived yet. Peter. The dead themselves the men (closing time). Not arrived yet. Peter. The dead themselves the men
anyhow would like to hear an odd joke or the women to know what's in anyhow would like to hear an odd joke or the women to know what's in
fashion. A juicy pear or ladies' punch, hot, strong and sweet. Keep out fashion. A juicy pear or ladies' punch, hot, strong and sweet. Keep out
the damp. You must laugh sometimes so better do it that way. Gravediggers the damp. You must laugh sometimes so better do it that way. Gravediggers
in HAMLET. Shows the profound knowledge of the human heart. Daren't joke in HAMLET. Shows the profound knowledge of the human heart. Daren't joke
about the dead for two years at least. DE MORTUIS NIL NISI PRIUS. Go out about the dead for two years at least. DE MORTUIS NIL NISI PRIUS. Go out
of mourning first. Hard to imagine his funeral. Seems a sort of a joke. of mourning first. Hard to imagine his funeral. Seems a sort of a joke.
Read your own obituary notice they say you live longer. Gives you second Read your own obituary notice they say you live longer. Gives you second
wind. New lease of life. wind. New lease of life.
--How many have-you for tomorrow? the caretaker asked. --How many have-you for tomorrow? the caretaker asked.
--Two, Corny Kelleher said. Half ten and eleven. --Two, Corny Kelleher said. Half ten and eleven.
The caretaker put the papers in his pocket. The barrow had ceased to The caretaker put the papers in his pocket. The barrow had ceased to
trundle. The mourners split and moved to each side of the hole, stepping trundle. The mourners split and moved to each side of the hole, stepping
with care round the graves. The gravediggers bore the coffin and set its with care round the graves. The gravediggers bore the coffin and set its
nose on the brink, looping the bands round it. nose on the brink, looping the bands round it.
Burying him. We come to bury Caesar. His ides of March or June. Burying him. We come to bury Caesar. His ides of March or June.
He doesn't know who is here nor care. He doesn't know who is here nor care.
Now who is that lankylooking galoot over there in the macintosh? Now who is that lankylooking galoot over there in the macintosh?
Now who is he I'd like to know? Now I'd give a trifle to know who he is. Now who is he I'd like to know? Now I'd give a trifle to know who he is.
Always someone turns up you never dreamt of. A fellow could live on his Always someone turns up you never dreamt of. A fellow could live on his
lonesome all his life. Yes, he could. Still he'd have to get someone to lonesome all his life. Yes, he could. Still he'd have to get someone to
sod him after he died though he could dig his own grave. We all do. Only sod him after he died though he could dig his own grave. We all do. Only
man buries. No, ants too. First thing strikes anybody. Bury the dead. Say man buries. No, ants too. First thing strikes anybody. Bury the dead. Say
Robinson Crusoe was true to life. Well then Friday buried him. Every Robinson Crusoe was true to life. Well then Friday buried him. Every
Friday buries a Thursday if you come to look at it. Friday buries a Thursday if you come to look at it.
    O, POOR ROBINSON CRUSOE!     O, POOR ROBINSON CRUSOE!
    HOW COULD YOU POSSIBLY DO SO?     HOW COULD YOU POSSIBLY DO SO?
Poor Dignam! His last lie on the earth in his box. When you think of Poor Dignam! His last lie on the earth in his box. When you think of
them all it does seem a waste of wood. All gnawed through. They could them all it does seem a waste of wood. All gnawed through. They could
invent a handsome bier with a kind of panel sliding, let it down that way. invent a handsome bier with a kind of panel sliding, let it down that way.
Ay but they might object to be buried out of another fellow's. They're so Ay but they might object to be buried out of another fellow's. They're so
particular. Lay me in my native earth. Bit of clay from the holy land. particular. Lay me in my native earth. Bit of clay from the holy land.
Only a mother and deadborn child ever buried in the one coffin. I see what Only a mother and deadborn child ever buried in the one coffin. I see what
it means. I see. To protect him as long as possible even in the earth. The it means. I see. To protect him as long as possible even in the earth. The
Irishman's house is his coffin. Embalming in catacombs, mummies the same Irishman's house is his coffin. Embalming in catacombs, mummies the same
idea. idea.
Mr Bloom stood far back, his hat in his hand, counting the bared Mr Bloom stood far back, his hat in his hand, counting the bared
heads. Twelve. I'm thirteen. No. The chap in the macintosh is thirteen. heads. Twelve. I'm thirteen. No. The chap in the macintosh is thirteen.
Death's number. Where the deuce did he pop out of? He wasn't in the Death's number. Where the deuce did he pop out of? He wasn't in the
chapel, that I'll swear. Silly superstition that about thirteen. chapel, that I'll swear. Silly superstition that about thirteen.
Nice soft tweed Ned Lambert has in that suit. Tinge of purple. I had Nice soft tweed Ned Lambert has in that suit. Tinge of purple. I had
one like that when we lived in Lombard street west. Dressy fellow he was one like that when we lived in Lombard street west. Dressy fellow he was
once. Used to change three suits in the day. Must get that grey suit of once. Used to change three suits in the day. Must get that grey suit of
mine turned by Mesias. Hello. It's dyed. His wife I forgot he's not mine turned by Mesias. Hello. It's dyed. His wife I forgot he's not
married or his landlady ought to have picked out those threads for him. married or his landlady ought to have picked out those threads for him.
The coffin dived out of sight, eased down by the men straddled on the The coffin dived out of sight, eased down by the men straddled on the
gravetrestles. They struggled up and out: and all uncovered. Twenty. gravetrestles. They struggled up and out: and all uncovered. Twenty.
Pause. Pause.
If we were all suddenly somebody else. If we were all suddenly somebody else.
Far away a donkey brayed. Rain. No such ass. Never see a dead one, Far away a donkey brayed. Rain. No such ass. Never see a dead one,
they say. Shame of death. They hide. Also poor papa went away. they say. Shame of death. They hide. Also poor papa went away.
Gentle sweet air blew round the bared heads in a whisper. Whisper. Gentle sweet air blew round the bared heads in a whisper. Whisper.
The boy by the gravehead held his wreath with both hands staring quietly The boy by the gravehead held his wreath with both hands staring quietly
in the black open space. Mr Bloom moved behind the portly kindly in the black open space. Mr Bloom moved behind the portly kindly
caretaker. Wellcut frockcoat. Weighing them up perhaps to see which will caretaker. Wellcut frockcoat. Weighing them up perhaps to see which will
go next. Well, it is a long rest. Feel no more. It's the moment you feel. go next. Well, it is a long rest. Feel no more. It's the moment you feel.
Must be damned unpleasant. Can't believe it at first. Mistake must be: Must be damned unpleasant. Can't believe it at first. Mistake must be:
someone else. Try the house opposite. Wait, I wanted to. I haven't yet. someone else. Try the house opposite. Wait, I wanted to. I haven't yet.
Then darkened deathchamber. Light they want. Whispering around you. Would Then darkened deathchamber. Light they want. Whispering around you. Would
you like to see a priest? Then rambling and wandering. Delirium all you you like to see a priest? Then rambling and wandering. Delirium all you
hid all your life. The death struggle. His sleep is not natural. Press his hid all your life. The death struggle. His sleep is not natural. Press his
lower eyelid. Watching is his nose pointed is his jaw sinking are the lower eyelid. Watching is his nose pointed is his jaw sinking are the
soles of his feet yellow. Pull the pillow away and finish it off on the soles of his feet yellow. Pull the pillow away and finish it off on the
floor since he's doomed. Devil in that picture of sinner's death showing floor since he's doomed. Devil in that picture of sinner's death showing
him a woman. Dying to embrace her in his shirt. Last act of LUCIA. him a woman. Dying to embrace her in his shirt. Last act of LUCIA.
SHALL I NEVERMORE BEHOLD THEE? Bam! He expires. Gone at last. People SHALL I NEVERMORE BEHOLD THEE? Bam! He expires. Gone at last. People
talk about you a bit: forget you. Don't forget to pray for him. talk about you a bit: forget you. Don't forget to pray for him.
Remember him in your prayers. Even Parnell. Ivy day dying out. Then Remember him in your prayers. Even Parnell. Ivy day dying out. Then
they follow: dropping into a hole, one after the other. they follow: dropping into a hole, one after the other.
We are praying now for the repose of his soul. Hoping you're well We are praying now for the repose of his soul. Hoping you're well
and not in hell. Nice change of air. Out of the fryingpan of life into the and not in hell. Nice change of air. Out of the fryingpan of life into the
fire of purgatory. fire of purgatory.
Does he ever think of the hole waiting for himself? They say you do Does he ever think of the hole waiting for himself? They say you do
when you shiver in the sun. Someone walking over it. Callboy's warning. when you shiver in the sun. Someone walking over it. Callboy's warning.
Near you. Mine over there towards Finglas, the plot I bought. Mamma, Near you. Mine over there towards Finglas, the plot I bought. Mamma,
poor mamma, and little Rudy. poor mamma, and little Rudy.
The gravediggers took up their spades and flung heavy clods of clay The gravediggers took up their spades and flung heavy clods of clay
in on the coffin. Mr Bloom turned away his face. And if he was alive all in on the coffin. Mr Bloom turned away his face. And if he was alive all
the time? Whew! By jingo, that would be awful! No, no: he is dead, of the time? Whew! By jingo, that would be awful! No, no: he is dead, of
course. Of course he is dead. Monday he died. They ought to have course. Of course he is dead. Monday he died. They ought to have
some law to pierce the heart and make sure or an electric clock or some law to pierce the heart and make sure or an electric clock or
NOSEY FLYNN: Can I raise a mortgage on my fire insurance? NOSEY FLYNN: Can I raise a mortgage on my fire insurance?
BLOOM: (OBDURATELY) Sirs, take notice that by the law of torts you are BLOOM: (OBDURATELY) Sirs, take notice that by the law of torts you are
bound over in your own recognisances for six months in the sum of five bound over in your own recognisances for six months in the sum of five
pounds. pounds.
J. J. O'MOLLOY: A Daniel did I say? Nay! A Peter O'Brien! J. J. O'MOLLOY: A Daniel did I say? Nay! A Peter O'Brien!
NOSEY FLYNN: Where do I draw the five pounds? NOSEY FLYNN: Where do I draw the five pounds?
PISSER BURKE: For bladder trouble? PISSER BURKE: For bladder trouble?
BLOOM: BLOOM:
    ACID. NIT. HYDROCHLOR. DIL., 20 minims     ACID. NIT. HYDROCHLOR. DIL., 20 minims
    TINCT. NUX VOM., 5 minims     TINCT. NUX VOM., 5 minims
    EXTR. TARAXEL. IIQ., 30 minims.     EXTR. TARAXEL. IIQ., 30 minims.
    AQ. DIS. TER IN DIE.     AQ. DIS. TER IN DIE.
CHRIS CALLINAN: What is the parallax of the subsolar ecliptic of CHRIS CALLINAN: What is the parallax of the subsolar ecliptic of
Aldebaran? Aldebaran?
BLOOM: Pleased to hear from you, Chris. K. II. BLOOM: Pleased to hear from you, Chris. K. II.
JOE HYNES: Why aren't you in uniform? JOE HYNES: Why aren't you in uniform?
BLOOM: When my progenitor of sainted memory wore the uniform of the BLOOM: When my progenitor of sainted memory wore the uniform of the
Austrian despot in a dank prison where was yours? Austrian despot in a dank prison where was yours?
BEN DOLLARD: Pansies? BEN DOLLARD: Pansies?
BLOOM: Embellish (beautify) suburban gardens. BLOOM: Embellish (beautify) suburban gardens.
BEN DOLLARD: When twins arrive? BEN DOLLARD: When twins arrive?
Kerry, Killybegs, the third largest harbour in the wide world with a fleet Kerry, Killybegs, the third largest harbour in the wide world with a fleet
of masts of the Galway Lynches and the Cavan O'Reillys and the of masts of the Galway Lynches and the Cavan O'Reillys and the
O'Kennedys of Dublin when the earl of Desmond could make a treaty with O'Kennedys of Dublin when the earl of Desmond could make a treaty with
the emperor Charles the Fifth himself. And will again, says he, when the the emperor Charles the Fifth himself. And will again, says he, when the
first Irish battleship is seen breasting the waves with our own flag to first Irish battleship is seen breasting the waves with our own flag to
the fore, none of your Henry Tudor's harps, no, the oldest flag afloat, the fore, none of your Henry Tudor's harps, no, the oldest flag afloat,
the flag of the province of Desmond and Thomond, three crowns on a blue the flag of the province of Desmond and Thomond, three crowns on a blue
field, the three sons of Milesius. field, the three sons of Milesius.
And he took the last swig out of the pint. Moya. All wind and piss like And he took the last swig out of the pint. Moya. All wind and piss like
a tanyard cat. Cows in Connacht have long horns. As much as his bloody a tanyard cat. Cows in Connacht have long horns. As much as his bloody
life is worth to go down and address his tall talk to the assembled life is worth to go down and address his tall talk to the assembled
multitude in Shanagolden where he daren't show his nose with the Molly multitude in Shanagolden where he daren't show his nose with the Molly
Maguires looking for him to let daylight through him for grabbing the Maguires looking for him to let daylight through him for grabbing the
holding of an evicted tenant. holding of an evicted tenant.
--Hear, hear to that, says John Wyse. What will you have? --Hear, hear to that, says John Wyse. What will you have?
--An imperial yeomanry, says Lenehan, to celebrate the occasion. --An imperial yeomanry, says Lenehan, to celebrate the occasion.
--Half one, Terry, says John Wyse, and a hands up. Terry! Are you asleep? --Half one, Terry, says John Wyse, and a hands up. Terry! Are you asleep?
--Yes, sir, says Terry. Small whisky and bottle of Allsop. Right, sir. --Yes, sir, says Terry. Small whisky and bottle of Allsop. Right, sir.
Hanging over the bloody paper with Alf looking for spicy bits instead Hanging over the bloody paper with Alf looking for spicy bits instead
of attending to the general public. Picture of a butting match, trying to of attending to the general public. Picture of a butting match, trying to
crack their bloody skulls, one chap going for the other with his head down crack their bloody skulls, one chap going for the other with his head down
like a bull at a gate. And another one: BLACK BEAST BURNED IN OMAHA, GA. like a bull at a gate. And another one: BLACK BEAST BURNED IN OMAHA, GA.
A lot of Deadwood Dicks in slouch hats and they firing at a Sambo strung A lot of Deadwood Dicks in slouch hats and they firing at a Sambo strung
up in a tree with his tongue out and a bonfire under him. Gob, they ought up in a tree with his tongue out and a bonfire under him. Gob, they ought
to drown him in the sea after and electrocute and crucify him to make sure to drown him in the sea after and electrocute and crucify him to make sure
of their job. of their job.
--But what about the fighting navy, says Ned, that keeps our foes at bay? --But what about the fighting navy, says Ned, that keeps our foes at bay?
--I'll tell you what about it, says the citizen. Hell upon earth it is. --I'll tell you what about it, says the citizen. Hell upon earth it is.
Read the revelations that's going on in the papers about flogging on the Read the revelations that's going on in the papers about flogging on the
training ships at Portsmouth. A fellow writes that calls himself DISGUSTED training ships at Portsmouth. A fellow writes that calls himself DISGUSTED
ONE. ONE.
So he starts telling us about corporal punishment and about the crew So he starts telling us about corporal punishment and about the crew
of tars and officers and rearadmirals drawn up in cocked hats and the of tars and officers and rearadmirals drawn up in cocked hats and the
parson with his protestant bible to witness punishment and a young lad parson with his protestant bible to witness punishment and a young lad
brought out, howling for his ma, and they tie him down on the buttend of a brought out, howling for his ma, and they tie him down on the buttend of a
gun. gun.
--A rump and dozen, says the citizen, was what that old ruffian sir John --A rump and dozen, says the citizen, was what that old ruffian sir John
Beresford called it but the modern God's Englishman calls it caning on the Beresford called it but the modern God's Englishman calls it caning on the
breech. breech.
And says John Wyse: And says John Wyse:
--'Tis a custom more honoured in the breach than in the observance. --'Tis a custom more honoured in the breach than in the observance.
Then he was telling us the master at arms comes along with a long Then he was telling us the master at arms comes along with a long
cane and he draws out and he flogs the bloody backside off of the poor lad cane and he draws out and he flogs the bloody backside off of the poor lad
till he yells meila murder. till he yells meila murder.
--That's your glorious British navy, says the citizen, that bosses the --That's your glorious British navy, says the citizen, that bosses the
earth. earth.
The fellows that never will be slaves, with the only hereditary chamber on The fellows that never will be slaves, with the only hereditary chamber on
the face of God's earth and their land in the hands of a dozen gamehogs the face of God's earth and their land in the hands of a dozen gamehogs
and cottonball barons. That's the great empire they boast about of drudges and cottonball barons. That's the great empire they boast about of drudges
and whipped serfs. and whipped serfs.
--On which the sun never rises, says Joe. --On which the sun never rises, says Joe.
--And the tragedy of it is, says the citizen, they believe it. The --And the tragedy of it is, says the citizen, they believe it. The
unfortunate yahoos believe it. unfortunate yahoos believe it.
They believe in rod, the scourger almighty, creator of hell upon earth, They believe in rod, the scourger almighty, creator of hell upon earth,
and in Jacky Tar, the son of a gun, who was conceived of unholy boast, and in Jacky Tar, the son of a gun, who was conceived of unholy boast,
born of the fighting navy, suffered under rump and dozen, was scarified, born of the fighting navy, suffered under rump and dozen, was scarified,
flayed and curried, yelled like bloody hell, the third day he arose again flayed and curried, yelled like bloody hell, the third day he arose again
from the bed, steered into haven, sitteth on his beamend till further from the bed, steered into haven, sitteth on his beamend till further
orders whence he shall come to drudge for a living and be paid. orders whence he shall come to drudge for a living and be paid.
--But, says Bloom, isn't discipline the same everywhere. I mean wouldn't --But, says Bloom, isn't discipline the same everywhere. I mean wouldn't
it be the same here if you put force against force? it be the same here if you put force against force?
Didn't I tell you? As true as I'm drinking this porter if he was at his Didn't I tell you? As true as I'm drinking this porter if he was at his
last gasp he'd try to downface you that dying was living. last gasp he'd try to downface you that dying was living.
--We'll put force against force, says the citizen. We have our greater --We'll put force against force, says the citizen. We have our greater
Ireland beyond the sea. They were driven out of house and home in the Ireland beyond the sea. They were driven out of house and home in the
black 47. Their mudcabins and their shielings by the roadside were laid black 47. Their mudcabins and their shielings by the roadside were laid
low by the batteringram and the TIMES rubbed its hands and told the low by the batteringram and the TIMES rubbed its hands and told the
whitelivered Saxons there would soon be as few Irish in Ireland as whitelivered Saxons there would soon be as few Irish in Ireland as
redskins in America. Even the Grand Turk sent us his piastres. But the redskins in America. Even the Grand Turk sent us his piastres. But the
Sassenach tried to starve the nation at home while the land was full of Sassenach tried to starve the nation at home while the land was full of
crops that the British hyenas bought and sold in Rio de Janeiro. Ay, they crops that the British hyenas bought and sold in Rio de Janeiro. Ay, they
drove out the peasants in hordes. Twenty thousand of them died in the drove out the peasants in hordes. Twenty thousand of them died in the
coffinships. But those that came to the land of the free remember the coffinships. But those that came to the land of the free remember the
land of bondage. And they will come again and with a vengeance, no land of bondage. And they will come again and with a vengeance, no
cravens, the sons of Granuaile, the champions of Kathleen ni Houlihan. cravens, the sons of Granuaile, the champions of Kathleen ni Houlihan.
--Perfectly true, says Bloom. But my point was ... --Perfectly true, says Bloom. But my point was ...
--We are a long time waiting for that day, citizen, says Ned. Since the --We are a long time waiting for that day, citizen, says Ned. Since the
poor old woman told us that the French were on the sea and landed at poor old woman told us that the French were on the sea and landed at
Killala. Killala.
--Ay, says John Wyse. We fought for the royal Stuarts that reneged us --Ay, says John Wyse. We fought for the royal Stuarts that reneged us
against the Williamites and they betrayed us. Remember Limerick and the against the Williamites and they betrayed us. Remember Limerick and the
broken treatystone. We gave our best blood to France and Spain, the wild broken treatystone. We gave our best blood to France and Spain, the wild
geese. Fontenoy, eh? And Sarsfield and O'Donnell, duke of Tetuan in geese. Fontenoy, eh? And Sarsfield and O'Donnell, duke of Tetuan in
Spain, and Ulysses Browne of Camus that was fieldmarshal to Maria Teresa. Spain, and Ulysses Browne of Camus that was fieldmarshal to Maria Teresa.
But what did we ever get for it? But what did we ever get for it?
--The French! says the citizen. Set of dancing masters! Do you know what --The French! says the citizen. Set of dancing masters! Do you know what
it is? They were never worth a roasted fart to Ireland. Aren't they it is? They were never worth a roasted fart to Ireland. Aren't they
trying to make an ENTENTE CORDIALE now at Tay Pay's dinnerparty with trying to make an ENTENTE CORDIALE now at Tay Pay's dinnerparty with
perfidious Albion? Firebrands of Europe and they always were. perfidious Albion? Firebrands of Europe and they always were.
--CONSPUEZ LES FRANCAIS, says Lenehan, nobbling his beer. --CONSPUEZ LES FRANCAIS, says Lenehan, nobbling his beer.
--And as for the Prooshians and the Hanoverians, says Joe, haven't we had --And as for the Prooshians and the Hanoverians, says Joe, haven't we had
enough of those sausageeating bastards on the throne from George the enough of those sausageeating bastards on the throne from George the
elector down to the German lad and the flatulent old bitch that's dead? elector down to the German lad and the flatulent old bitch that's dead?
Jesus, I had to laugh at the way he came out with that about the old one Jesus, I had to laugh at the way he came out with that about the old one
with the winkers on her, blind drunk in her royal palace every night of with the winkers on her, blind drunk in her royal palace every night of
God, old Vic, with her jorum of mountain dew and her coachman carting her God, old Vic, with her jorum of mountain dew and her coachman carting her
up body and bones to roll into bed and she pulling him by the whiskers up body and bones to roll into bed and she pulling him by the whiskers
and singing him old bits of songs about EHREN ON THE RHINE and come where and singing him old bits of songs about EHREN ON THE RHINE and come where
the boose is cheaper. the boose is cheaper.
--Well, says J. J. We have Edward the peacemaker now. --Well, says J. J. We have Edward the peacemaker now.
--Tell that to a fool, says the citizen. There's a bloody sight more pox --Tell that to a fool, says the citizen. There's a bloody sight more pox
than pax about that boyo. Edward Guelph-Wettin! than pax about that boyo. Edward Guelph-Wettin!
--And what do you think, says Joe, of the holy boys, the priests and --And what do you think, says Joe, of the holy boys, the priests and
bishops of Ireland doing up his room in Maynooth in His Satanic Majesty's bishops of Ireland doing up his room in Maynooth in His Satanic Majesty's
racing colours and sticking up pictures of all the horses his jockeys racing colours and sticking up pictures of all the horses his jockeys
rode. The earl of Dublin, no less. rode. The earl of Dublin, no less.
--They ought to have stuck up all the women he rode himself, says little --They ought to have stuck up all the women he rode himself, says little
Alf. Alf.
And says J. J.: And says J. J.:
--Considerations of space influenced their lordships' decision. --Considerations of space influenced their lordships' decision.
--Will you try another, citizen? says Joe. --Will you try another, citizen? says Joe.
--Yes, sir, says he. I will. --Yes, sir, says he. I will.
--You? says Joe. --You? says Joe.
--Beholden to you, Joe, says I. May your shadow never grow less. --Beholden to you, Joe, says I. May your shadow never grow less.
--Repeat that dose, says Joe. --Repeat that dose, says Joe.
Bloom was talking and talking with John Wyse and he quite excited with Bloom was talking and talking with John Wyse and he quite excited with
his dunducketymudcoloured mug on him and his old plumeyes rolling about. his dunducketymudcoloured mug on him and his old plumeyes rolling about.
--Persecution, says he, all the history of the world is full of it. --Persecution, says he, all the history of the world is full of it.
Perpetuating national hatred among nations. Perpetuating national hatred among nations.
--But do you know what a nation means? says John Wyse. --But do you know what a nation means? says John Wyse.
--Yes, says Bloom. --Yes, says Bloom.
--What is it? says John Wyse. --What is it? says John Wyse.
--A nation? says Bloom. A nation is the same people living in the same --A nation? says Bloom. A nation is the same people living in the same
place. place.
--By God, then, says Ned, laughing, if that's so I'm a nation for I'm --By God, then, says Ned, laughing, if that's so I'm a nation for I'm
living in the same place for the past five years. living in the same place for the past five years.
So of course everyone had the laugh at Bloom and says he, trying to So of course everyone had the laugh at Bloom and says he, trying to
muck out of it: muck out of it:
--Or also living in different places. --Or also living in different places.
--That covers my case, says Joe. --That covers my case, says Joe.
--What is your nation if I may ask? says the citizen. --What is your nation if I may ask? says the citizen.
--Ireland, says Bloom. I was born here. Ireland. --Ireland, says Bloom. I was born here. Ireland.
The citizen said nothing only cleared the spit out of his gullet and, The citizen said nothing only cleared the spit out of his gullet and,
gob, he spat a Red bank oyster out of him right in the corner. gob, he spat a Red bank oyster out of him right in the corner.
--After you with the push, Joe, says he, taking out his handkerchief to --After you with the push, Joe, says he, taking out his handkerchief to
swab himself dry. swab himself dry.
--Here you are, citizen, says Joe. Take that in your right hand and repeat --Here you are, citizen, says Joe. Take that in your right hand and repeat
after me the following words. after me the following words.
The muchtreasured and intricately embroidered ancient Irish The muchtreasured and intricately embroidered ancient Irish
facecloth attributed to Solomon of Droma and Manus Tomaltach og facecloth attributed to Solomon of Droma and Manus Tomaltach og
MacDonogh, authors of the Book of Ballymote, was then carefully MacDonogh, authors of the Book of Ballymote, was then carefully
produced and called forth prolonged admiration. No need to dwell on the produced and called forth prolonged admiration. No need to dwell on the
legendary beauty of the cornerpieces, the acme of art, wherein one can legendary beauty of the cornerpieces, the acme of art, wherein one can
distinctly discern each of the four evangelists in turn presenting to each distinctly discern each of the four evangelists in turn presenting to each
of the four masters his evangelical symbol, a bogoak sceptre, a North of the four masters his evangelical symbol, a bogoak sceptre, a North
American puma (a far nobler king of beasts than the British article, be it American puma (a far nobler king of beasts than the British article, be it
said in passing), a Kerry calf and a golden eagle from Carrantuohill. The said in passing), a Kerry calf and a golden eagle from Carrantuohill. The
scenes depicted on the emunctory field, showing our ancient duns and raths scenes depicted on the emunctory field, showing our ancient duns and raths
and cromlechs and grianauns and seats of learning and maledictive stones, and cromlechs and grianauns and seats of learning and maledictive stones,
are as wonderfully beautiful and the pigments as delicate as when the are as wonderfully beautiful and the pigments as delicate as when the
Sligo illuminators gave free rein to their artistic fantasy long long ago Sligo illuminators gave free rein to their artistic fantasy long long ago
in the time of the Barmecides. Glendalough, the lovely lakes of Killarney, in the time of the Barmecides. Glendalough, the lovely lakes of Killarney,
the ruins of Clonmacnois, Cong Abbey, Glen Inagh and the Twelve Pins, the ruins of Clonmacnois, Cong Abbey, Glen Inagh and the Twelve Pins,
Ireland's Eye, the Green Hills of Tallaght, Croagh Patrick, the brewery of Ireland's Eye, the Green Hills of Tallaght, Croagh Patrick, the brewery of
Messrs Arthur Guinness, Son and Company (Limited), Lough Neagh's banks, Messrs Arthur Guinness, Son and Company (Limited), Lough Neagh's banks,
the vale of Ovoca, Isolde's tower, the Mapas obelisk, Sir Patrick Dun's the vale of Ovoca, Isolde's tower, the Mapas obelisk, Sir Patrick Dun's
hospital, Cape Clear, the glen of Aherlow, Lynch's castle, the Scotch hospital, Cape Clear, the glen of Aherlow, Lynch's castle, the Scotch
house, Rathdown Union Workhouse at Loughlinstown, Tullamore jail, house, Rathdown Union Workhouse at Loughlinstown, Tullamore jail,
Castleconnel rapids, Kilballymacshonakill, the cross at Monasterboice, Castleconnel rapids, Kilballymacshonakill, the cross at Monasterboice,
Jury's Hotel, S. Patrick's Purgatory, the Salmon Leap, Maynooth college Jury's Hotel, S. Patrick's Purgatory, the Salmon Leap, Maynooth college
refectory, Curley's hole, the three birthplaces of the first duke of refectory, Curley's hole, the three birthplaces of the first duke of
Wellington, the rock of Cashel, the bog of Allen, the Henry Street Wellington, the rock of Cashel, the bog of Allen, the Henry Street
Warehouse, Fingal's Cave--all these moving scenes are still there for us Warehouse, Fingal's Cave--all these moving scenes are still there for us
today rendered more beautiful still by the waters of sorrow which have today rendered more beautiful still by the waters of sorrow which have
passed over them and by the rich incrustations of time. passed over them and by the rich incrustations of time.
--Show us over the drink, says I. Which is which? --Show us over the drink, says I. Which is which?
--That's mine, says Joe, as the devil said to the dead policeman. --That's mine, says Joe, as the devil said to the dead policeman.
--And I belong to a race too, says Bloom, that is hated and persecuted. --And I belong to a race too, says Bloom, that is hated and persecuted.
Also now. This very moment. This very instant. Also now. This very moment. This very instant.
Gob, he near burnt his fingers with the butt of his old cigar. Gob, he near burnt his fingers with the butt of his old cigar.
--Robbed, says he. Plundered. Insulted. Persecuted. Taking what belongs --Robbed, says he. Plundered. Insulted. Persecuted. Taking what belongs
to us by right. At this very moment, says he, putting up his fist, sold by to us by right. At this very moment, says he, putting up his fist, sold by
auction in Morocco like slaves or cattle. auction in Morocco like slaves or cattle.
--Are you talking about the new Jerusalem? says the citizen. --Are you talking about the new Jerusalem? says the citizen.
--I'm talking about injustice, says Bloom. --I'm talking about injustice, says Bloom.
--Right, says John Wyse. Stand up to it then with force like men. --Right, says John Wyse. Stand up to it then with force like men.
That's an almanac picture for you. Mark for a softnosed bullet. Old That's an almanac picture for you. Mark for a softnosed bullet. Old
lardyface standing up to the business end of a gun. Gob, he'd adorn a lardyface standing up to the business end of a gun. Gob, he'd adorn a
sweepingbrush, so he would, if he only had a nurse's apron on him. And sweepingbrush, so he would, if he only had a nurse's apron on him. And
then he collapses all of a sudden, twisting around all the opposite, as then he collapses all of a sudden, twisting around all the opposite, as
limp as a wet rag. limp as a wet rag.
--But it's no use, says he. Force, hatred, history, all that. That's not --But it's no use, says he. Force, hatred, history, all that. That's not
life for men and women, insult and hatred. And everybody knows that it's life for men and women, insult and hatred. And everybody knows that it's
the very opposite of that that is really life. the very opposite of that that is really life.
--What? says Alf. --What? says Alf.
--Love, says Bloom. I mean the opposite of hatred. I must go now, says he --Love, says Bloom. I mean the opposite of hatred. I must go now, says he
to John Wyse. Just round to the court a moment to see if Martin is there. to John Wyse. Just round to the court a moment to see if Martin is there.
If he comes just say I'll be back in a second. Just a moment. If he comes just say I'll be back in a second. Just a moment.
Who's hindering you? And off he pops like greased lightning. Who's hindering you? And off he pops like greased lightning.
--A new apostle to the gentiles, says the citizen. Universal love. --A new apostle to the gentiles, says the citizen. Universal love.
--Well, says John Wyse. Isn't that what we're told. Love your neighbour. --Well, says John Wyse. Isn't that what we're told. Love your neighbour.
--That chap? says the citizen. Beggar my neighbour is his motto. Love, --That chap? says the citizen. Beggar my neighbour is his motto. Love,
moya! He's a nice pattern of a Romeo and Juliet. moya! He's a nice pattern of a Romeo and Juliet.
Love loves to love love. Nurse loves the new chemist. Constable 14A Love loves to love love. Nurse loves the new chemist. Constable 14A
loves Mary Kelly. Gerty MacDowell loves the boy that has the bicycle. loves Mary Kelly. Gerty MacDowell loves the boy that has the bicycle.
M. B. loves a fair gentleman. Li Chi Han lovey up kissy Cha Pu Chow. M. B. loves a fair gentleman. Li Chi Han lovey up kissy Cha Pu Chow.
Jumbo, the elephant, loves Alice, the elephant. Old Mr Verschoyle with the Jumbo, the elephant, loves Alice, the elephant. Old Mr Verschoyle with the
ear trumpet loves old Mrs Verschoyle with the turnedin eye. The man in the ear trumpet loves old Mrs Verschoyle with the turnedin eye. The man in the
brown macintosh loves a lady who is dead. His Majesty the King loves Her brown macintosh loves a lady who is dead. His Majesty the King loves Her
Majesty the Queen. Mrs Norman W. Tupper loves officer Taylor. You love Majesty the Queen. Mrs Norman W. Tupper loves officer Taylor. You love
a certain person. And this person loves that other person because a certain person. And this person loves that other person because
everybody loves somebody but God loves everybody. everybody loves somebody but God loves everybody.
--Well, Joe, says I, your very good health and song. More power, citizen. --Well, Joe, says I, your very good health and song. More power, citizen.
--Hurrah, there, says Joe. --Hurrah, there, says Joe.
--The blessing of God and Mary and Patrick on you, says the citizen. --The blessing of God and Mary and Patrick on you, says the citizen.
And he ups with his pint to wet his whistle. And he ups with his pint to wet his whistle.
--We know those canters, says he, preaching and picking your pocket. --We know those canters, says he, preaching and picking your pocket.
What about sanctimonious Cromwell and his ironsides that put the women What about sanctimonious Cromwell and his ironsides that put the women
and children of Drogheda to the sword with the bible text GOD IS LOVE and children of Drogheda to the sword with the bible text GOD IS LOVE
pasted round the mouth of his cannon? The bible! Did you read that skit in pasted round the mouth of his cannon? The bible! Did you read that skit in
the UNITED IRISHMAN today about that Zulu chief that's visiting England? the UNITED IRISHMAN today about that Zulu chief that's visiting England?
--What's that? says Joe. --What's that? says Joe.
So the citizen takes up one of his paraphernalia papers and he starts So the citizen takes up one of his paraphernalia papers and he starts
reading out: reading out:
--A delegation of the chief cotton magnates of Manchester was presented --A delegation of the chief cotton magnates of Manchester was presented
yesterday to His Majesty the Alaki of Abeakuta by Gold Stick in Waiting, yesterday to His Majesty the Alaki of Abeakuta by Gold Stick in Waiting,
Lord Walkup of Walkup on Eggs, to tender to His Majesty the heartfelt Lord Walkup of Walkup on Eggs, to tender to His Majesty the heartfelt
thanks of British traders for the facilities afforded them in his thanks of British traders for the facilities afforded them in his
dominions. The delegation partook of luncheon at the conclusion dominions. The delegation partook of luncheon at the conclusion
of which the dusky potentate, in the course of a happy speech, of which the dusky potentate, in the course of a happy speech,
freely translated by the British chaplain, the reverend Ananias freely translated by the British chaplain, the reverend Ananias
Praisegod Barebones, tendered his best thanks to Massa Walkup and Praisegod Barebones, tendered his best thanks to Massa Walkup and
emphasised the cordial relations existing between Abeakuta and the emphasised the cordial relations existing between Abeakuta and the
British empire, stating that he treasured as one of his dearest British empire, stating that he treasured as one of his dearest
possessions an illuminated bible, the volume of the word of God possessions an illuminated bible, the volume of the word of God
and the secret of England's greatness, graciously presented to him by and the secret of England's greatness, graciously presented to him by
the white chief woman, the great squaw Victoria, with a personal the white chief woman, the great squaw Victoria, with a personal
dedication from the august hand of the Royal Donor. The Alaki then drank a dedication from the august hand of the Royal Donor. The Alaki then drank a
lovingcup of firstshot usquebaugh to the toast BLACK AND WHITE from the lovingcup of firstshot usquebaugh to the toast BLACK AND WHITE from the
skull of his immediate predecessor in the dynasty Kakachakachak, skull of his immediate predecessor in the dynasty Kakachakachak,
surnamed Forty Warts, after which he visited the chief factory of surnamed Forty Warts, after which he visited the chief factory of
Cottonopolis and signed his mark in the visitors' book, subsequently Cottonopolis and signed his mark in the visitors' book, subsequently
executing a charming old Abeakutic wardance, in the course of which he executing a charming old Abeakutic wardance, in the course of which he
swallowed several knives and forks, amid hilarious applause from the girl swallowed several knives and forks, amid hilarious applause from the girl
hands. hands.
--Widow woman, says Ned. I wouldn't doubt her. Wonder did he put that --Widow woman, says Ned. I wouldn't doubt her. Wonder did he put that
bible to the same use as I would. bible to the same use as I would.
--Same only more so, says Lenehan. And thereafter in that fruitful land --Same only more so, says Lenehan. And thereafter in that fruitful land
the broadleaved mango flourished exceedingly. the broadleaved mango flourished exceedingly.
--Is that by Griffith? says John Wyse. --Is that by Griffith? says John Wyse.
--No, says the citizen. It's not signed Shanganagh. It's only --No, says the citizen. It's not signed Shanganagh. It's only
initialled: P. initialled: P.
--And a very good initial too, says Joe. --And a very good initial too, says Joe.
--That's how it's worked, says the citizen. Trade follows the flag. --That's how it's worked, says the citizen. Trade follows the flag.
--Well, says J. J., if they're any worse than those Belgians in the Congo --Well, says J. J., if they're any worse than those Belgians in the Congo
Free State they must be bad. Did you read that report by a man what's this Free State they must be bad. Did you read that report by a man what's this
his name is? his name is?
--Casement, says the citizen. He's an Irishman. --Casement, says the citizen. He's an Irishman.
--Yes, that's the man, says J. J. Raping the women and girls and flogging --Yes, that's the man, says J. J. Raping the women and girls and flogging
the natives on the belly to squeeze all the red rubber they can out of the natives on the belly to squeeze all the red rubber they can out of
them. them.
--I know where he's gone, says Lenehan, cracking his fingers. --I know where he's gone, says Lenehan, cracking his fingers.
--Who? says I. --Who? says I.
--Bloom, says he. The courthouse is a blind. He had a few bob on --Bloom, says he. The courthouse is a blind. He had a few bob on
THROWAWAY and he's gone to gather in the shekels. THROWAWAY and he's gone to gather in the shekels.
--Is it that whiteeyed kaffir? says the citizen, that never backed a horse --Is it that whiteeyed kaffir? says the citizen, that never backed a horse
in anger in his life? in anger in his life?
--That's where he's gone, says Lenehan. I met Bantam Lyons going to back --That's where he's gone, says Lenehan. I met Bantam Lyons going to back
that horse only I put him off it and he told me Bloom gave him the tip. that horse only I put him off it and he told me Bloom gave him the tip.
Bet you what you like he has a hundred shillings to five on. He's the only Bet you what you like he has a hundred shillings to five on. He's the only
man in Dublin has it. A dark horse. man in Dublin has it. A dark horse.
--He's a bloody dark horse himself, says Joe. --He's a bloody dark horse himself, says Joe.
--Mind, Joe, says I. Show us the entrance out. --Mind, Joe, says I. Show us the entrance out.
--There you are, says Terry. --There you are, says Terry.
Goodbye Ireland I'm going to Gort. So I just went round the back of Goodbye Ireland I'm going to Gort. So I just went round the back of
the yard to pumpship and begob (hundred shillings to five) while I was the yard to pumpship and begob (hundred shillings to five) while I was
letting off my (THROWAWAY twenty to) letting off my load gob says I to letting off my (THROWAWAY twenty to) letting off my load gob says I to
myself I knew he was uneasy in his (two pints off of Joe and one in myself I knew he was uneasy in his (two pints off of Joe and one in
Slattery's off) in his mind to get off the mark to (hundred shillings is Slattery's off) in his mind to get off the mark to (hundred shillings is
five quid) and when they were in the (dark horse) pisser Burke five quid) and when they were in the (dark horse) pisser Burke
was telling me card party and letting on the child was sick (gob, must was telling me card party and letting on the child was sick (gob, must
have done about a gallon) flabbyarse of a wife speaking down the tube have done about a gallon) flabbyarse of a wife speaking down the tube
SHE'S BETTER or SHE'S (ow!) all a plan so he could vamoose with the SHE'S BETTER or SHE'S (ow!) all a plan so he could vamoose with the
pool if he won or (Jesus, full up I was) trading without a licence (ow!) pool if he won or (Jesus, full up I was) trading without a licence (ow!)
Ireland my nation says he (hoik! phthook!) never be up to those Ireland my nation says he (hoik! phthook!) never be up to those
bloody (there's the last of it) Jerusalem (ah!) cuckoos. bloody (there's the last of it) Jerusalem (ah!) cuckoos.
So anyhow when I got back they were at it dingdong, John Wyse So anyhow when I got back they were at it dingdong, John Wyse
saying it was Bloom gave the ideas for Sinn Fein to Griffith to put in his saying it was Bloom gave the ideas for Sinn Fein to Griffith to put in his
paper all kinds of jerrymandering, packed juries and swindling the taxes paper all kinds of jerrymandering, packed juries and swindling the taxes
off of the government and appointing consuls all over the world to walk off of the government and appointing consuls all over the world to walk
about selling Irish industries. Robbing Peter to pay Paul. Gob, that puts about selling Irish industries. Robbing Peter to pay Paul. Gob, that puts
the bloody kybosh on it if old sloppy eyes is mucking up the show. Give us the bloody kybosh on it if old sloppy eyes is mucking up the show. Give us
a bloody chance. God save Ireland from the likes of that bloody a bloody chance. God save Ireland from the likes of that bloody
mouseabout. Mr Bloom with his argol bargol. And his old fellow before him mouseabout. Mr Bloom with his argol bargol. And his old fellow before him
perpetrating frauds, old Methusalem Bloom, the robbing bagman, that perpetrating frauds, old Methusalem Bloom, the robbing bagman, that
poisoned himself with the prussic acid after he swamping the country with poisoned himself with the prussic acid after he swamping the country with
his baubles and his penny diamonds. Loans by post on easy terms. Any his baubles and his penny diamonds. Loans by post on easy terms. Any
amount of money advanced on note of hand. Distance no object. No security. amount of money advanced on note of hand. Distance no object. No security.
Gob, he's like Lanty MacHale's goat that'd go a piece of the road with Gob, he's like Lanty MacHale's goat that'd go a piece of the road with
every one. every one.
--Well, it's a fact, says John Wyse. And there's the man now that'll tell --Well, it's a fact, says John Wyse. And there's the man now that'll tell
you all about it, Martin Cunningham. you all about it, Martin Cunningham.
Sure enough the castle car drove up with Martin on it and Jack Power Sure enough the castle car drove up with Martin on it and Jack Power
with him and a fellow named Crofter or Crofton, pensioner out of the with him and a fellow named Crofter or Crofton, pensioner out of the
collector general's, an orangeman Blackburn does have on the registration collector general's, an orangeman Blackburn does have on the registration
and he drawing his pay or Crawford gallivanting around the country at the and he drawing his pay or Crawford gallivanting around the country at the
king's expense. king's expense.
Our travellers reached the rustic hostelry and alighted from their Our travellers reached the rustic hostelry and alighted from their
palfreys. palfreys.
--Ho, varlet! cried he, who by his mien seemed the leader of the party. --Ho, varlet! cried he, who by his mien seemed the leader of the party.
Saucy knave! To us! Saucy knave! To us!
So saying he knocked loudly with his swordhilt upon the open lattice. So saying he knocked loudly with his swordhilt upon the open lattice.
Mine host came forth at the summons, girding him with his tabard. Mine host came forth at the summons, girding him with his tabard.
--Give you good den, my masters, said he with an obsequious bow. --Give you good den, my masters, said he with an obsequious bow.
--Bestir thyself, sirrah! cried he who had knocked. Look to our steeds. --Bestir thyself, sirrah! cried he who had knocked. Look to our steeds.
And for ourselves give us of your best for ifaith we need it. And for ourselves give us of your best for ifaith we need it.
--Lackaday, good masters, said the host, my poor house has but a bare --Lackaday, good masters, said the host, my poor house has but a bare
larder. I know not what to offer your lordships. larder. I know not what to offer your lordships.
--How now, fellow? cried the second of the party, a man of pleasant --How now, fellow? cried the second of the party, a man of pleasant
countenance, So servest thou the king's messengers, master Taptun? countenance, So servest thou the king's messengers, master Taptun?
An instantaneous change overspread the landlord's visage. An instantaneous change overspread the landlord's visage.
--Cry you mercy, gentlemen, he said humbly. An you be the king's --Cry you mercy, gentlemen, he said humbly. An you be the king's
messengers (God shield His Majesty!) you shall not want for aught. The messengers (God shield His Majesty!) you shall not want for aught. The
king's friends (God bless His Majesty!) shall not go afasting in my house king's friends (God bless His Majesty!) shall not go afasting in my house
I warrant me. I warrant me.
--Then about! cried the traveller who had not spoken, a lusty trencherman --Then about! cried the traveller who had not spoken, a lusty trencherman
by his aspect. Hast aught to give us? by his aspect. Hast aught to give us?
Mine host bowed again as he made answer: Mine host bowed again as he made answer:
--What say you, good masters, to a squab pigeon pasty, some collops of --What say you, good masters, to a squab pigeon pasty, some collops of
venison, a saddle of veal, widgeon with crisp hog's bacon, a boar's head venison, a saddle of veal, widgeon with crisp hog's bacon, a boar's head
with pistachios, a bason of jolly custard, a medlar tansy and a flagon of with pistachios, a bason of jolly custard, a medlar tansy and a flagon of
old Rhenish? old Rhenish?
--Gadzooks! cried the last speaker. That likes me well. Pistachios! --Gadzooks! cried the last speaker. That likes me well. Pistachios!
--Aha! cried he of the pleasant countenance. A poor house and a bare --Aha! cried he of the pleasant countenance. A poor house and a bare
larder, quotha! 'Tis a merry rogue. larder, quotha! 'Tis a merry rogue.
So in comes Martin asking where was Bloom. So in comes Martin asking where was Bloom.
--Where is he? says Lenehan. Defrauding widows and orphans. --Where is he? says Lenehan. Defrauding widows and orphans.
--Isn't that a fact, says John Wyse, what I was telling the citizen about --Isn't that a fact, says John Wyse, what I was telling the citizen about
Bloom and the Sinn Fein? Bloom and the Sinn Fein?
--That's so, says Martin. Or so they allege. --That's so, says Martin. Or so they allege.
--Who made those allegations? says Alf. --Who made those allegations? says Alf.
--I, says Joe. I'm the alligator. --I, says Joe. I'm the alligator.
--And after all, says John Wyse, why can't a jew love his country like the --And after all, says John Wyse, why can't a jew love his country like the
next fellow? next fellow?
--Why not? says J. J., when he's quite sure which country it is. --Why not? says J. J., when he's quite sure which country it is.
--Is he a jew or a gentile or a holy Roman or a swaddler or what the hell --Is he a jew or a gentile or a holy Roman or a swaddler or what the hell
is he? says Ned. Or who is he? No offence, Crofton. is he? says Ned. Or who is he? No offence, Crofton.
--Who is Junius? says J. J. --Who is Junius? says J. J.
--We don't want him, says Crofter the Orangeman or presbyterian. --We don't want him, says Crofter the Orangeman or presbyterian.
--He's a perverted jew, says Martin, from a place in Hungary and it was he --He's a perverted jew, says Martin, from a place in Hungary and it was he
drew up all the plans according to the Hungarian system. We know that in drew up all the plans according to the Hungarian system. We know that in
the castle. the castle.
--Isn't he a cousin of Bloom the dentist? says Jack Power. --Isn't he a cousin of Bloom the dentist? says Jack Power.
--Not at all, says Martin. Only namesakes. His name was Virag, the --Not at all, says Martin. Only namesakes. His name was Virag, the
father's name that poisoned himself. He changed it by deedpoll, the father father's name that poisoned himself. He changed it by deedpoll, the father
did. did.
--That's the new Messiah for Ireland! says the citizen. Island of saints --That's the new Messiah for Ireland! says the citizen. Island of saints
and sages! and sages!
--Well, they're still waiting for their redeemer, says Martin. For that --Well, they're still waiting for their redeemer, says Martin. For that
matter so are we. matter so are we.
--Yes, says J. J., and every male that's born they think it may be their --Yes, says J. J., and every male that's born they think it may be their
Messiah. And every jew is in a tall state of excitement, I believe, till Messiah. And every jew is in a tall state of excitement, I believe, till
he knows if he's a father or a mother. he knows if he's a father or a mother.
--Expecting every moment will be his next, says Lenehan. --Expecting every moment will be his next, says Lenehan.
--O, by God, says Ned, you should have seen Bloom before that son of his --O, by God, says Ned, you should have seen Bloom before that son of his
that died was born. I met him one day in the south city markets buying a that died was born. I met him one day in the south city markets buying a
tin of Neave's food six weeks before the wife was delivered. tin of Neave's food six weeks before the wife was delivered.
--EN VENTRE SA MERE, says J. J. --EN VENTRE SA MERE, says J. J.
--Do you call that a man? says the citizen. --Do you call that a man? says the citizen.
--I wonder did he ever put it out of sight, says Joe. --I wonder did he ever put it out of sight, says Joe.
--Well, there were two children born anyhow, says Jack Power. --Well, there were two children born anyhow, says Jack Power.
--And who does he suspect? says the citizen. --And who does he suspect? says the citizen.
Gob, there's many a true word spoken in jest. One of those mixed Gob, there's many a true word spoken in jest. One of those mixed
middlings he is. Lying up in the hotel Pisser was telling me once a month middlings he is. Lying up in the hotel Pisser was telling me once a month
with headache like a totty with her courses. Do you know what I'm telling with headache like a totty with her courses. Do you know what I'm telling
you? It'd be an act of God to take a hold of a fellow the like of that and you? It'd be an act of God to take a hold of a fellow the like of that and
throw him in the bloody sea. Justifiable homicide, so it would. Then throw him in the bloody sea. Justifiable homicide, so it would. Then
sloping off with his five quid without putting up a pint of stuff like a sloping off with his five quid without putting up a pint of stuff like a
man. Give us your blessing. Not as much as would blind your eye. man. Give us your blessing. Not as much as would blind your eye.
--Charity to the neighbour, says Martin. But where is he? We can't wait. --Charity to the neighbour, says Martin. But where is he? We can't wait.
--A wolf in sheep's clothing, says the citizen. That's what he is. Virag --A wolf in sheep's clothing, says the citizen. That's what he is. Virag
from Hungary! Ahasuerus I call him. Cursed by God. from Hungary! Ahasuerus I call him. Cursed by God.
--Have you time for a brief libation, Martin? says Ned. --Have you time for a brief libation, Martin? says Ned.
--Only one, says Martin. We must be quick. J. J. and S. --Only one, says Martin. We must be quick. J. J. and S.
--You, Jack? Crofton? Three half ones, Terry. --You, Jack? Crofton? Three half ones, Terry.
--Saint Patrick would want to land again at Ballykinlar and convert us, --Saint Patrick would want to land again at Ballykinlar and convert us,
says the citizen, after allowing things like that to contaminate our says the citizen, after allowing things like that to contaminate our
shores. shores.
--Well, says Martin, rapping for his glass. God bless all here is my --Well, says Martin, rapping for his glass. God bless all here is my
prayer. prayer.
--Amen, says the citizen. --Amen, says the citizen.
--And I'm sure He will, says Joe. --And I'm sure He will, says Joe.
And at the sound of the sacring bell, headed by a crucifer with acolytes, And at the sound of the sacring bell, headed by a crucifer with acolytes,
thurifers, boatbearers, readers, ostiarii, deacons and subdeacons, thurifers, boatbearers, readers, ostiarii, deacons and subdeacons,
the blessed company drew nigh of mitred abbots and priors and guardians the blessed company drew nigh of mitred abbots and priors and guardians
and monks and friars: the monks of Benedict of Spoleto, Carthusians and and monks and friars: the monks of Benedict of Spoleto, Carthusians and
Camaldolesi, Cistercians and Olivetans, Oratorians and Vallombrosans, Camaldolesi, Cistercians and Olivetans, Oratorians and Vallombrosans,
and the friars of Augustine, Brigittines, Premonstratensians, Servi, and the friars of Augustine, Brigittines, Premonstratensians, Servi,
Trinitarians, and the children of Peter Nolasco: and therewith from Carmel Trinitarians, and the children of Peter Nolasco: and therewith from Carmel
mount the children of Elijah prophet led by Albert bishop and by Teresa of mount the children of Elijah prophet led by Albert bishop and by Teresa of
Avila, calced and other: and friars, brown and grey, sons of poor Francis, Avila, calced and other: and friars, brown and grey, sons of poor Francis,
capuchins, cordeliers, minimes and observants and the daughters of Clara: capuchins, cordeliers, minimes and observants and the daughters of Clara:
and the sons of Dominic, the friars preachers, and the sons of Vincent: and the sons of Dominic, the friars preachers, and the sons of Vincent:
and the monks of S. Wolstan: and Ignatius his children: and the and the monks of S. Wolstan: and Ignatius his children: and the
confraternity of the christian brothers led by the reverend brother confraternity of the christian brothers led by the reverend brother
Edmund Ignatius Rice. And after came all saints and martyrs, Edmund Ignatius Rice. And after came all saints and martyrs,
virgins and confessors: S. Cyr and S. Isidore Arator and S. James the virgins and confessors: S. Cyr and S. Isidore Arator and S. James the
Less and S. Phocas of Sinope and S. Julian Hospitator and S. Felix Less and S. Phocas of Sinope and S. Julian Hospitator and S. Felix
de Cantalice and S. Simon Stylites and S. Stephen Protomartyr and de Cantalice and S. Simon Stylites and S. Stephen Protomartyr and
S. John of God and S. Ferreol and S. Leugarde and S. Theodotus and S. S. John of God and S. Ferreol and S. Leugarde and S. Theodotus and S.
Vulmar and S. Richard and S. Vincent de Paul and S. Martin of Todi Vulmar and S. Richard and S. Vincent de Paul and S. Martin of Todi
and S. Martin of Tours and S. Alfred and S. Joseph and S. and S. Martin of Tours and S. Alfred and S. Joseph and S.
Denis and S. Cornelius and S. Leopold and S. Bernard and S. Terence and Denis and S. Cornelius and S. Leopold and S. Bernard and S. Terence and
S. Edward and S. Owen Caniculus and S. Anonymous and S. Eponymous S. Edward and S. Owen Caniculus and S. Anonymous and S. Eponymous
and S. Pseudonymous and S. Homonymous and S. Paronymous and S. and S. Pseudonymous and S. Homonymous and S. Paronymous and S.
Synonymous and S. Laurence O'Toole and S. James of Dingle and Synonymous and S. Laurence O'Toole and S. James of Dingle and
--PARDON, MONSIEUR, Lenehan said, clutching him for an instant and making --PARDON, MONSIEUR, Lenehan said, clutching him for an instant and making
a grimace. a grimace.
--My fault, Mr Bloom said, suffering his grip. Are you hurt? I'm in a --My fault, Mr Bloom said, suffering his grip. Are you hurt? I'm in a
hurry. hurry.
--Knee, Lenehan said. --Knee, Lenehan said.
He made a comic face and whined, rubbing his knee: He made a comic face and whined, rubbing his knee:
--The accumulation of the ANNO DOMINI. --The accumulation of the ANNO DOMINI.
--Sorry, Mr Bloom said. --Sorry, Mr Bloom said.
He went to the door and, holding it ajar, paused. J. J. O'Molloy He went to the door and, holding it ajar, paused. J. J. O'Molloy
slapped the heavy pages over. The noise of two shrill voices, a slapped the heavy pages over. The noise of two shrill voices, a
mouthorgan, echoed in the bare hallway from the newsboys squatted on the mouthorgan, echoed in the bare hallway from the newsboys squatted on the
doorsteps: doorsteps:
  --WE ARE THE BOYS OF WEXFORD   --WE ARE THE BOYS OF WEXFORD
    WHO FOUGHT WITH HEART AND HAND.     WHO FOUGHT WITH HEART AND HAND.
    EXIT BLOOM     EXIT BLOOM
--I'm just running round to Bachelor's walk, Mr Bloom said, about this ad --I'm just running round to Bachelor's walk, Mr Bloom said, about this ad
of Keyes's. Want to fix it up. They tell me he's round there in Dillon's. of Keyes's. Want to fix it up. They tell me he's round there in Dillon's.
He looked indecisively for a moment at their faces. The editor who, He looked indecisively for a moment at their faces. The editor who,
leaning against the mantelshelf, had propped his head on his hand, leaning against the mantelshelf, had propped his head on his hand,
suddenly stretched forth an arm amply. suddenly stretched forth an arm amply.
--Begone! he said. The world is before you. --Begone! he said. The world is before you.
--Back in no time, Mr Bloom said, hurrying out. --Back in no time, Mr Bloom said, hurrying out.
J. J. O'Molloy took the tissues from Lenehan's hand and read them, J. J. O'Molloy took the tissues from Lenehan's hand and read them,
blowing them apart gently, without comment. blowing them apart gently, without comment.
--He'll get that advertisement, the professor said, staring through his --He'll get that advertisement, the professor said, staring through his
blackrimmed spectacles over the crossblind. Look at the young scamps after blackrimmed spectacles over the crossblind. Look at the young scamps after
him. him.
--Show. Where? Lenehan cried, running to the window. --Show. Where? Lenehan cried, running to the window.
    A STREET CORTEGE     A STREET CORTEGE
Both smiled over the crossblind at the file of capering newsboys in Mr Both smiled over the crossblind at the file of capering newsboys in Mr
Bloom's wake, the last zigzagging white on the breeze a mocking kite, a Bloom's wake, the last zigzagging white on the breeze a mocking kite, a
tail of white bowknots. tail of white bowknots.
--Look at the young guttersnipe behind him hue and cry, Lenehan said, and --Look at the young guttersnipe behind him hue and cry, Lenehan said, and
you'll kick. O, my rib risible! Taking off his flat spaugs and the walk. you'll kick. O, my rib risible! Taking off his flat spaugs and the walk.
Small nines. Steal upon larks. Small nines. Steal upon larks.
He began to mazurka in swift caricature across the floor on sliding He began to mazurka in swift caricature across the floor on sliding
feet past the fireplace to J. J. O'Molloy who placed the tissues in his feet past the fireplace to J. J. O'Molloy who placed the tissues in his
receiving hands. receiving hands.
Did Stephen obey his sign? Did Stephen obey his sign?
Yes, entering softly, he helped to close and chain the door and followed Yes, entering softly, he helped to close and chain the door and followed
softly along the hallway the man's back and listed feet and lighted softly along the hallway the man's back and listed feet and lighted
candle past a lighted crevice of doorway on the left and carefully down a candle past a lighted crevice of doorway on the left and carefully down a
turning staircase of more than five steps into the kitchen of Bloom's turning staircase of more than five steps into the kitchen of Bloom's
house. house.
What did Bloom do? What did Bloom do?
He extinguished the candle by a sharp expiration of breath upon its He extinguished the candle by a sharp expiration of breath upon its
flame, drew two spoonseat deal chairs to the hearthstone, one for Stephen flame, drew two spoonseat deal chairs to the hearthstone, one for Stephen
with its back to the area window, the other for himself when necessary, with its back to the area window, the other for himself when necessary,
knelt on one knee, composed in the grate a pyre of crosslaid resintipped knelt on one knee, composed in the grate a pyre of crosslaid resintipped
sticks and various coloured papers and irregular polygons of best Abram sticks and various coloured papers and irregular polygons of best Abram
coal at twentyone shillings a ton from the yard of Messrs Flower and coal at twentyone shillings a ton from the yard of Messrs Flower and
M'Donald of 14 D'Olier street, kindled it at three projecting points of M'Donald of 14 D'Olier street, kindled it at three projecting points of
paper with one ignited lucifer match, thereby releasing the potential paper with one ignited lucifer match, thereby releasing the potential
energy contained in the fuel by allowing its carbon and hydrogen elements energy contained in the fuel by allowing its carbon and hydrogen elements
to enter into free union with the oxygen of the air. to enter into free union with the oxygen of the air.
Of what similar apparitions did Stephen think? Of what similar apparitions did Stephen think?
Of others elsewhere in other times who, kneeling on one knee or on two, Of others elsewhere in other times who, kneeling on one knee or on two,
had kindled fires for him, of Brother Michael in the infirmary of the had kindled fires for him, of Brother Michael in the infirmary of the
college of the Society of Jesus at Clongowes Wood, Sallins, in the county college of the Society of Jesus at Clongowes Wood, Sallins, in the county
of Kildare: of his father, Simon Dedalus, in an unfurnished room of his of Kildare: of his father, Simon Dedalus, in an unfurnished room of his
first residence in Dublin, number thirteen Fitzgibbon street: of his first residence in Dublin, number thirteen Fitzgibbon street: of his
godmother Miss Kate Morkan in the house of her dying sister Miss Julia godmother Miss Kate Morkan in the house of her dying sister Miss Julia
Morkan at 15 Usher's Island: of his aunt Sara, wife of Richie (Richard) Morkan at 15 Usher's Island: of his aunt Sara, wife of Richie (Richard)
Goulding, in the kitchen of their lodgings at 62 Clanbrassil street: of Goulding, in the kitchen of their lodgings at 62 Clanbrassil street: of
his mother Mary, wife of Simon Dedalus, in the kitchen of number twelve his mother Mary, wife of Simon Dedalus, in the kitchen of number twelve
North Richmond street on the morning of the feast of Saint Francis Xavier North Richmond street on the morning of the feast of Saint Francis Xavier
1898: of the dean of studies, Father Butt, in the physics' theatre of 1898: of the dean of studies, Father Butt, in the physics' theatre of
university College, 16 Stephen's Green, north: of his sister Dilly university College, 16 Stephen's Green, north: of his sister Dilly
(Delia) in his father's house in Cabra. (Delia) in his father's house in Cabra.
What did Stephen see on raising his gaze to the height of a yard from the What did Stephen see on raising his gaze to the height of a yard from the
fire towards the opposite wall? fire towards the opposite wall?
Under a row of five coiled spring housebells a curvilinear rope, Under a row of five coiled spring housebells a curvilinear rope,
stretched between two holdfasts athwart across the recess beside the stretched between two holdfasts athwart across the recess beside the
chimney pier, from which hung four smallsized square handkerchiefs folded chimney pier, from which hung four smallsized square handkerchiefs folded
unattached consecutively in adjacent rectangles and one pair of ladies' unattached consecutively in adjacent rectangles and one pair of ladies'
grey hose with Lisle suspender tops and feet in their habitual position grey hose with Lisle suspender tops and feet in their habitual position
clamped by three erect wooden pegs two at their outer extremities and the clamped by three erect wooden pegs two at their outer extremities and the
third at their point of junction. third at their point of junction.
What did Bloom see on the range? What did Bloom see on the range?
On the right (smaller) hob a blue enamelled saucepan: on the left On the right (smaller) hob a blue enamelled saucepan: on the left
(larger) hob a black iron kettle. (larger) hob a black iron kettle.
What did Bloom do at the range? What did Bloom do at the range?
He removed the saucepan to the left hob, rose and carried the iron kettle He removed the saucepan to the left hob, rose and carried the iron kettle
to the sink in order to tap the current by turning the faucet to let it to the sink in order to tap the current by turning the faucet to let it
flow. flow.
Did it flow? Did it flow?
Yes. From Roundwood reservoir in county Wicklow of a cubic capacity of Yes. From Roundwood reservoir in county Wicklow of a cubic capacity of
2400 million gallons, percolating through a subterranean aqueduct of 2400 million gallons, percolating through a subterranean aqueduct of
filter mains of single and double pipeage constructed at an initial plant filter mains of single and double pipeage constructed at an initial plant
cost of 5 pounds per linear yard by way of the Dargle, Rathdown, Glen of cost of 5 pounds per linear yard by way of the Dargle, Rathdown, Glen of
the Downs and Callowhill to the 26 acre reservoir at Stillorgan, a the Downs and Callowhill to the 26 acre reservoir at Stillorgan, a
distance of 22 statute miles, and thence, through a system of relieving distance of 22 statute miles, and thence, through a system of relieving
tanks, by a gradient of 250 feet to the city boundary at Eustace bridge, tanks, by a gradient of 250 feet to the city boundary at Eustace bridge,
upper Leeson street, though from prolonged summer drouth and daily supply upper Leeson street, though from prolonged summer drouth and daily supply
of 12 1/2 million gallons the water had fallen below the sill of the of 12 1/2 million gallons the water had fallen below the sill of the
overflow weir for which reason the borough surveyor and waterworks overflow weir for which reason the borough surveyor and waterworks
engineer, Mr Spencer Harty, C. E., on the instructions of the waterworks engineer, Mr Spencer Harty, C. E., on the instructions of the waterworks
committee had prohibited the use of municipal water for purposes other committee had prohibited the use of municipal water for purposes other
than those of consumption (envisaging the possibility of recourse being than those of consumption (envisaging the possibility of recourse being
had to the impotable water of the Grand and Royal canals as in 1893) had to the impotable water of the Grand and Royal canals as in 1893)
particularly as the South Dublin Guardians, notwithstanding their ration particularly as the South Dublin Guardians, notwithstanding their ration
of 15 gallons per day per pauper supplied through a 6 inch meter, had of 15 gallons per day per pauper supplied through a 6 inch meter, had
been convicted of a wastage of 20,000 gallons per night by a reading of been convicted of a wastage of 20,000 gallons per night by a reading of
their meter on the affirmation of the law agent of the corporation, Mr their meter on the affirmation of the law agent of the corporation, Mr
Ignatius Rice, solicitor, thereby acting to the detriment of another Ignatius Rice, solicitor, thereby acting to the detriment of another
section of the public, selfsupporting taxpayers, solvent, sound. section of the public, selfsupporting taxpayers, solvent, sound.
What in water did Bloom, waterlover, drawer of water, watercarrier, What in water did Bloom, waterlover, drawer of water, watercarrier,
returning to the range, admire? returning to the range, admire?
Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy to its nature in Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy to its nature in
seeking its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's seeking its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's
projection: its unplumbed profundity in the Sundam trench of the Pacific projection: its unplumbed profundity in the Sundam trench of the Pacific
exceeding 8000 fathoms: the restlessness of its waves and surface exceeding 8000 fathoms: the restlessness of its waves and surface
particles visiting in turn all points of its seaboard: the independence particles visiting in turn all points of its seaboard: the independence
of its units: the variability of states of sea: its hydrostatic of its units: the variability of states of sea: its hydrostatic
quiescence in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides: quiescence in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides:
its subsidence after devastation: its sterility in the circumpolar its subsidence after devastation: its sterility in the circumpolar
icecaps, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial significance: icecaps, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial significance:
its preponderance of 3 to 1 over the dry land of the globe: its its preponderance of 3 to 1 over the dry land of the globe: its
indisputable hegemony extending in square leagues over all the region indisputable hegemony extending in square leagues over all the region
below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability
of its primeval basin: its luteofulvous bed: its capacity to dissolve and of its primeval basin: its luteofulvous bed: its capacity to dissolve and
hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the
most precious metals: its slow erosions of peninsulas and islands, its most precious metals: its slow erosions of peninsulas and islands, its
persistent formation of homothetic islands, peninsulas and persistent formation of homothetic islands, peninsulas and
downwardtending promontories: its alluvial deposits: its weight and downwardtending promontories: its alluvial deposits: its weight and
volume and density: its imperturbability in lagoons and highland tarns: volume and density: its imperturbability in lagoons and highland tarns:
its gradation of colours in the torrid and temperate and frigid zones: its gradation of colours in the torrid and temperate and frigid zones:
its vehicular ramifications in continental lakecontained streams and its vehicular ramifications in continental lakecontained streams and
confluent oceanflowing rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic confluent oceanflowing rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic
currents, gulfstream, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in currents, gulfstream, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in
seaquakes, waterspouts, Artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, eddies, seaquakes, waterspouts, Artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, eddies,
freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers,
cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, deluges, cloudbursts: its cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, deluges, cloudbursts: its
vast circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its secrecy in springs and vast circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its secrecy in springs and
latent humidity, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and latent humidity, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and
exemplified by the well by the hole in the wall at Ashtown gate, exemplified by the well by the hole in the wall at Ashtown gate,
saturation of air, distillation of dew: the simplicity of its saturation of air, distillation of dew: the simplicity of its
composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part
of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead
Sea: its persevering penetrativeness in runnels, gullies, inadequate Sea: its persevering penetrativeness in runnels, gullies, inadequate
dams, leaks on shipboard: its properties for cleansing, quenching thirst dams, leaks on shipboard: its properties for cleansing, quenching thirst
and fire, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and and fire, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and
paragon: its metamorphoses as vapour, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, paragon: its metamorphoses as vapour, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow,
hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in loughs and hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in loughs and
bays and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and bays and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and
archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and
arms of sea: its solidity in glaciers, icebergs, icefloes: its docility arms of sea: its solidity in glaciers, icebergs, icefloes: its docility
in working hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power in working hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power
stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its utility in canals, stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its utility in canals,
rivers, if navigable, floating and graving docks: its potentiality rivers, if navigable, floating and graving docks: its potentiality
derivable from harnessed tides or watercourses falling from level to derivable from harnessed tides or watercourses falling from level to
level: its submarine fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobe), level: its submarine fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobe),
numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the globe: its ubiquity numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the globe: its ubiquity
as constituting 90 percent of the human body: the noxiousness of its as constituting 90 percent of the human body: the noxiousness of its
effluvia in lacustrine marshes, pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, effluvia in lacustrine marshes, pestilential fens, faded flowerwater,
stagnant pools in the waning moon. stagnant pools in the waning moon.
Having set the halffilled kettle on the now burning coals, why did he Having set the halffilled kettle on the now burning coals, why did he
return to the stillflowing tap? return to the stillflowing tap?
To wash his soiled hands with a partially consumed tablet of Barrington's To wash his soiled hands with a partially consumed tablet of Barrington's
lemonflavoured soap, to which paper still adhered, (bought thirteen hours lemonflavoured soap, to which paper still adhered, (bought thirteen hours
previously for fourpence and still unpaid for), in fresh cold previously for fourpence and still unpaid for), in fresh cold
neverchanging everchanging water and dry them, face and hands, in a long neverchanging everchanging water and dry them, face and hands, in a long
redbordered holland cloth passed over a wooden revolving roller. redbordered holland cloth passed over a wooden revolving roller.
What reason did Stephen give for declining Bloom's offer? What reason did Stephen give for declining Bloom's offer?
That he was hydrophobe, hating partial contact by immersion or total by That he was hydrophobe, hating partial contact by immersion or total by
submersion in cold water, (his last bath having taken place in the month submersion in cold water, (his last bath having taken place in the month
of October of the preceding year), disliking the aqueous substances of of October of the preceding year), disliking the aqueous substances of
glass and crystal, distrusting aquacities of thought and language. glass and crystal, distrusting aquacities of thought and language.
What impeded Bloom from giving Stephen counsels of hygiene and What impeded Bloom from giving Stephen counsels of hygiene and
prophylactic to which should be added suggestions concerning a prophylactic to which should be added suggestions concerning a
preliminary wetting of the head and contraction of the muscles with rapid preliminary wetting of the head and contraction of the muscles with rapid
splashing of the face and neck and thoracic and epigastric region in case splashing of the face and neck and thoracic and epigastric region in case
of sea or river bathing, the parts of the human anatomy most sensitive to of sea or river bathing, the parts of the human anatomy most sensitive to
cold being the nape, stomach and thenar or sole of foot? cold being the nape, stomach and thenar or sole of foot?
The incompatibility of aquacity with the erratic originality of genius. The incompatibility of aquacity with the erratic originality of genius.
What additional didactic counsels did he similarly repress? What additional didactic counsels did he similarly repress?
Dietary: concerning the respective percentage of protein and caloric Dietary: concerning the respective percentage of protein and caloric
energy in bacon, salt ling and butter, the absence of the former in the energy in bacon, salt ling and butter, the absence of the former in the
lastnamed and the abundance of the latter in the firstnamed. lastnamed and the abundance of the latter in the firstnamed.
Which seemed to the host to be the predominant qualities of his guest? Which seemed to the host to be the predominant qualities of his guest?
Confidence in himself, an equal and opposite power of abandonment and Confidence in himself, an equal and opposite power of abandonment and
recuperation. recuperation.
What concomitant phenomenon took place in the vessel of liquid by the What concomitant phenomenon took place in the vessel of liquid by the
agency of fire? agency of fire?
The phenomenon of ebullition. Fanned by a constant updraught of The phenomenon of ebullition. Fanned by a constant updraught of
ventilation between the kitchen and the chimneyflue, ignition was ventilation between the kitchen and the chimneyflue, ignition was
communicated from the faggots of precombustible fuel to polyhedral masses communicated from the faggots of precombustible fuel to polyhedral masses
of bituminous coal, containing in compressed mineral form the foliated of bituminous coal, containing in compressed mineral form the foliated
fossilised decidua of primeval forests which had in turn derived their fossilised decidua of primeval forests which had in turn derived their
vegetative existence from the sun, primal source of heat (radiant), vegetative existence from the sun, primal source of heat (radiant),
transmitted through omnipresent luminiferous diathermanous ether. Heat transmitted through omnipresent luminiferous diathermanous ether. Heat
(convected), a mode of motion developed by such combustion, was (convected), a mode of motion developed by such combustion, was
constantly and increasingly conveyed from the source of calorification to constantly and increasingly conveyed from the source of calorification to
the liquid contained in the vessel, being radiated through the uneven the liquid contained in the vessel, being radiated through the uneven
unpolished dark surface of the metal iron, in part reflected, in part unpolished dark surface of the metal iron, in part reflected, in part
absorbed, in part transmitted, gradually raising the temperature of the absorbed, in part transmitted, gradually raising the temperature of the
water from normal to boiling point, a rise in temperature expressible as water from normal to boiling point, a rise in temperature expressible as
the result of an expenditure of 72 thermal units needed to raise 1 pound the result of an expenditure of 72 thermal units needed to raise 1 pound
of water from 50 degrees to 212 degrees Fahrenheit. of water from 50 degrees to 212 degrees Fahrenheit.
What announced the accomplishment of this rise in temperature? What announced the accomplishment of this rise in temperature?
A double falciform ejection of water vapour from under the kettlelid at A double falciform ejection of water vapour from under the kettlelid at
both sides simultaneously. both sides simultaneously.
For what personal purpose could Bloom have applied the water so boiled? For what personal purpose could Bloom have applied the water so boiled?
To shave himself. To shave himself.
What advantages attended shaving by night? What advantages attended shaving by night?
A softer beard: a softer brush if intentionally allowed to remain from A softer beard: a softer brush if intentionally allowed to remain from
shave to shave in its agglutinated lather: a softer skin if unexpectedly shave to shave in its agglutinated lather: a softer skin if unexpectedly
encountering female acquaintances in remote places at incustomary hours: encountering female acquaintances in remote places at incustomary hours:
quiet reflections upon the course of the day: a cleaner sensation when quiet reflections upon the course of the day: a cleaner sensation when
awaking after a fresher sleep since matutinal noises, premonitions and awaking after a fresher sleep since matutinal noises, premonitions and
perturbations, a clattered milkcan, a postman's double knock, a paper perturbations, a clattered milkcan, a postman's double knock, a paper
read, reread while lathering, relathering the same spot, a shock, a read, reread while lathering, relathering the same spot, a shock, a
shoot, with thought of aught he sought though fraught with nought might shoot, with thought of aught he sought though fraught with nought might
cause a faster rate of shaving and a nick on which incision plaster with cause a faster rate of shaving and a nick on which incision plaster with
precision cut and humected and applied adhered: which was to be done. precision cut and humected and applied adhered: which was to be done.
Why did absence of light disturb him less than presence of noise? Why did absence of light disturb him less than presence of noise?
Because of the surety of the sense of touch in his firm full masculine Because of the surety of the sense of touch in his firm full masculine
feminine passive active hand. feminine passive active hand.
What quality did it (his hand) possess but with what counteracting What quality did it (his hand) possess but with what counteracting
influence? influence?
The operative surgical quality but that he was reluctant to shed human The operative surgical quality but that he was reluctant to shed human
blood even when the end justified the means, preferring, in their natural blood even when the end justified the means, preferring, in their natural
order, heliotherapy, psychophysicotherapeutics, osteopathic surgery. order, heliotherapy, psychophysicotherapeutics, osteopathic surgery.
What lay under exposure on the lower, middle and upper shelves of the What lay under exposure on the lower, middle and upper shelves of the
kitchen dresser, opened by Bloom? kitchen dresser, opened by Bloom?
On the lower shelf five vertical breakfast plates, six horizontal On the lower shelf five vertical breakfast plates, six horizontal
breakfast saucers on which rested inverted breakfast cups, a breakfast saucers on which rested inverted breakfast cups, a
moustachecup, uninverted, and saucer of Crown Derby, four white moustachecup, uninverted, and saucer of Crown Derby, four white
goldrimmed eggcups, an open shammy purse displaying coins, mostly copper, goldrimmed eggcups, an open shammy purse displaying coins, mostly copper,
and a phial of aromatic (violet) comfits. On the middle shelf a chipped and a phial of aromatic (violet) comfits. On the middle shelf a chipped
eggcup containing pepper, a drum of table salt, four conglomerated black eggcup containing pepper, a drum of table salt, four conglomerated black
olives in oleaginous paper, an empty pot of Plumtree's potted meat, an olives in oleaginous paper, an empty pot of Plumtree's potted meat, an
oval wicker basket bedded with fibre and containing one Jersey pear, a oval wicker basket bedded with fibre and containing one Jersey pear, a
halfempty bottle of William Gilbey and Co's white invalid port, half halfempty bottle of William Gilbey and Co's white invalid port, half
disrobed of its swathe of coralpink tissue paper, a packet of Epps's disrobed of its swathe of coralpink tissue paper, a packet of Epps's
soluble cocoa, five ounces of Anne Lynch's choice tea at 2/- per lb in a soluble cocoa, five ounces of Anne Lynch's choice tea at 2/- per lb in a
crinkled leadpaper bag, a cylindrical canister containing the best crinkled leadpaper bag, a cylindrical canister containing the best
crystallised lump sugar, two onions, one, the larger, Spanish, entire, crystallised lump sugar, two onions, one, the larger, Spanish, entire,
the other, smaller, Irish, bisected with augmented surface and more the other, smaller, Irish, bisected with augmented surface and more
redolent, a jar of Irish Model Dairy's cream, a jug of brown crockery redolent, a jar of Irish Model Dairy's cream, a jug of brown crockery
containing a naggin and a quarter of soured adulterated milk, converted containing a naggin and a quarter of soured adulterated milk, converted
by heat into water, acidulous serum and semisolidified curds, which added by heat into water, acidulous serum and semisolidified curds, which added
to the quantity subtracted for Mr Bloom's and Mrs Fleming's breakfasts, to the quantity subtracted for Mr Bloom's and Mrs Fleming's breakfasts,
made one imperial pint, the total quantity originally delivered, two made one imperial pint, the total quantity originally delivered, two
cloves, a halfpenny and a small dish containing a slice of fresh cloves, a halfpenny and a small dish containing a slice of fresh
ribsteak. On the upper shelf a battery of jamjars (empty) of various ribsteak. On the upper shelf a battery of jamjars (empty) of various
sizes and proveniences. sizes and proveniences.
What attracted his attention lying on the apron of the dresser? What attracted his attention lying on the apron of the dresser?
Four polygonal fragments of two lacerated scarlet betting tickets, Four polygonal fragments of two lacerated scarlet betting tickets,
numbered 8 87, 88 6. numbered 8 87, 88 6.
What reminiscences temporarily corrugated his brow? What reminiscences temporarily corrugated his brow?
Reminiscences of coincidences, truth stranger than fiction, preindicative Reminiscences of coincidences, truth stranger than fiction, preindicative
of the result of the Gold Cup flat handicap, the official and definitive of the result of the Gold Cup flat handicap, the official and definitive
result of which he had read in the EVENING TELEGRAPH, late pink edition, result of which he had read in the EVENING TELEGRAPH, late pink edition,
in the cabman's shelter, at Butt bridge. in the cabman's shelter, at Butt bridge.
Where had previous intimations of the result, effected or projected, been Where had previous intimations of the result, effected or projected, been
received by him? received by him?
In Bernard Kiernan's licensed premises 8, 9 and 10 little Britain street: In Bernard Kiernan's licensed premises 8, 9 and 10 little Britain street:
in David Byrne's licensed premises, 14 Duke street: in O'Connell street in David Byrne's licensed premises, 14 Duke street: in O'Connell street
lower, outside Graham Lemon's when a dark man had placed in his hand a lower, outside Graham Lemon's when a dark man had placed in his hand a
throwaway (subsequently thrown away), advertising Elijah, restorer of the throwaway (subsequently thrown away), advertising Elijah, restorer of the
church in Zion: in Lincoln place outside the premises of F. W. Sweny and church in Zion: in Lincoln place outside the premises of F. W. Sweny and
Co (Limited), dispensing chemists, when, when Frederick M. (Bantam) Lyons Co (Limited), dispensing chemists, when, when Frederick M. (Bantam) Lyons
had rapidly and successively requested, perused and restituted the copy had rapidly and successively requested, perused and restituted the copy
of the current issue of the FREEMAN'S JOURNAL AND NATIONAL PRESS which he of the current issue of the FREEMAN'S JOURNAL AND NATIONAL PRESS which he
had been about to throw away (subsequently thrown away), he had proceeded had been about to throw away (subsequently thrown away), he had proceeded
towards the oriental edifice of the Turkish and Warm Baths, 11 Leinster towards the oriental edifice of the Turkish and Warm Baths, 11 Leinster
street, with the light of inspiration shining in his countenance and street, with the light of inspiration shining in his countenance and
bearing in his arms the secret of the race, graven in the language of bearing in his arms the secret of the race, graven in the language of
prediction. prediction.
What qualifying considerations allayed his perturbations? What qualifying considerations allayed his perturbations?
The difficulties of interpretation since the significance of any event The difficulties of interpretation since the significance of any event
followed its occurrence as variably as the acoustic report followed the followed its occurrence as variably as the acoustic report followed the
electrical discharge and of counterestimating against an actual loss by electrical discharge and of counterestimating against an actual loss by
failure to interpret the total sum of possible losses proceeding failure to interpret the total sum of possible losses proceeding
originally from a successful interpretation. originally from a successful interpretation.
His mood? His mood?
He had not risked, he did not expect, he had not been disappointed, he He had not risked, he did not expect, he had not been disappointed, he
was satisfied. was satisfied.
What satisfied him? What satisfied him?
To have sustained no positive loss. To have brought a positive gain to To have sustained no positive loss. To have brought a positive gain to
others. Light to the gentiles. others. Light to the gentiles.
How did Bloom prepare a collation for a gentile? How did Bloom prepare a collation for a gentile?
He poured into two teacups two level spoonfuls, four in all, of Epps's He poured into two teacups two level spoonfuls, four in all, of Epps's
soluble cocoa and proceeded according to the directions for use printed soluble cocoa and proceeded according to the directions for use printed
on the label, to each adding after sufficient time for infusion the on the label, to each adding after sufficient time for infusion the
prescribed ingredients for diffusion in the manner and in the quantity prescribed ingredients for diffusion in the manner and in the quantity
prescribed. prescribed.
What supererogatory marks of special hospitality did the host show his What supererogatory marks of special hospitality did the host show his
guest? guest?
Relinquishing his symposiarchal right to the moustache cup of imitation Relinquishing his symposiarchal right to the moustache cup of imitation
Crown Derby presented to him by his only daughter, Millicent (Milly), he Crown Derby presented to him by his only daughter, Millicent (Milly), he
substituted a cup identical with that of his guest and served substituted a cup identical with that of his guest and served
extraordinarily to his guest and, in reduced measure, to himself the extraordinarily to his guest and, in reduced measure, to himself the
viscous cream ordinarily reserved for the breakfast of his wife Marion viscous cream ordinarily reserved for the breakfast of his wife Marion
(Molly). (Molly).
Was the guest conscious of and did he acknowledge these marks of Was the guest conscious of and did he acknowledge these marks of
hospitality? hospitality?
His attention was directed to them by his host jocosely, and he accepted His attention was directed to them by his host jocosely, and he accepted
them seriously as they drank in jocoserious silence Epps's massproduct, them seriously as they drank in jocoserious silence Epps's massproduct,
the creature cocoa. the creature cocoa.
Were there marks of hospitality which he contemplated but suppressed, Were there marks of hospitality which he contemplated but suppressed,
reserving them for another and for himself on future occasions to reserving them for another and for himself on future occasions to
complete the act begun? complete the act begun?
The reparation of a fissure of the length of 1 1/2 inches in the right The reparation of a fissure of the length of 1 1/2 inches in the right
side of his guest's jacket. A gift to his guest of one of the four lady's side of his guest's jacket. A gift to his guest of one of the four lady's
handkerchiefs, if and when ascertained to be in a presentable condition. handkerchiefs, if and when ascertained to be in a presentable condition.
Who drank more quickly? Who drank more quickly?
Bloom, having the advantage of ten seconds at the initiation and taking, Bloom, having the advantage of ten seconds at the initiation and taking,
from the concave surface of a spoon along the handle of which a steady from the concave surface of a spoon along the handle of which a steady
flow of heat was conducted, three sips to his opponent's one, six to two, flow of heat was conducted, three sips to his opponent's one, six to two,
nine to three. nine to three.
What cerebration accompanied his frequentative act? What cerebration accompanied his frequentative act?
Concluding by inspection but erroneously that his silent companion was Concluding by inspection but erroneously that his silent companion was
engaged in mental composition he reflected on the pleasures derived from engaged in mental composition he reflected on the pleasures derived from
literature of instruction rather than of amusement as he himself had literature of instruction rather than of amusement as he himself had
applied to the works of William Shakespeare more than once for the applied to the works of William Shakespeare more than once for the
solution of difficult problems in imaginary or real life. solution of difficult problems in imaginary or real life.
Had he found their solution? Had he found their solution?
In spite of careful and repeated reading of certain classical passages, In spite of careful and repeated reading of certain classical passages,
aided by a glossary, he had derived imperfect conviction from the text, aided by a glossary, he had derived imperfect conviction from the text,
the answers not bearing in all points. the answers not bearing in all points.
What lines concluded his first piece of original verse written by him, What lines concluded his first piece of original verse written by him,
potential poet, at the age of 11 in 1877 on the occasion of the offering potential poet, at the age of 11 in 1877 on the occasion of the offering
of three prizes of 10/-, 5/- and 2/6 respectively for competition by the of three prizes of 10/-, 5/- and 2/6 respectively for competition by the
SHAMROCK, a weekly newspaper? SHAMROCK, a weekly newspaper?
    AN AMBITION TO SQUINT     AN AMBITION TO SQUINT
    AT MY VERSES IN PRINT     AT MY VERSES IN PRINT
    MAKES ME HOPE THAT FOR THESE YOU'LL FIND ROOM.     MAKES ME HOPE THAT FOR THESE YOU'LL FIND ROOM.
    IF YOU SO CONDESCEND     IF YOU SO CONDESCEND
    THEN PLEASE PLACE AT THE END     THEN PLEASE PLACE AT THE END
    THE NAME OF YOURS TRULY, L. BLOOM.     THE NAME OF YOURS TRULY, L. BLOOM.
Did he find four separating forces between his temporary guest and him? Did he find four separating forces between his temporary guest and him?
Name, age, race, creed. Name, age, race, creed.
What anagrams had he made on his name in youth? What anagrams had he made on his name in youth?
    Leopold Bloom     Leopold Bloom
    Ellpodbomool     Ellpodbomool
    Molldopeloob     Molldopeloob
    Bollopedoom     Bollopedoom
    Old Ollebo, M. P.     Old Ollebo, M. P.
What acrostic upon the abbreviation of his first name had he (kinetic What acrostic upon the abbreviation of his first name had he (kinetic
poet) sent to Miss Marion (Molly) Tweedy on the 14 February 1888? poet) sent to Miss Marion (Molly) Tweedy on the 14 February 1888?
    POETS OFT HAVE SUNG IN RHYME     POETS OFT HAVE SUNG IN RHYME
    OF MUSIC SWEET THEIR PRAISE DIVINE.     OF MUSIC SWEET THEIR PRAISE DIVINE.
    LET THEM HYMN IT NINE TIMES NINE.     LET THEM HYMN IT NINE TIMES NINE.
    DEARER FAR THAN SONG OR WINE.     DEARER FAR THAN SONG OR WINE.
    YOU ARE MINE. THE WORLD IS MINE.     YOU ARE MINE. THE WORLD IS MINE.
What had prevented him from completing a topical song (music by R. G. What had prevented him from completing a topical song (music by R. G.
Johnston) on the events of the past, or fixtures for the actual, years, Johnston) on the events of the past, or fixtures for the actual, years,
entitled IF BRIAN BORU COULD BUT COME BACK AND SEE OLD DUBLIN NOW, entitled IF BRIAN BORU COULD BUT COME BACK AND SEE OLD DUBLIN NOW,
commissioned by Michael Gunn, lessee of the Gaiety Theatre, 46, 47, 48, commissioned by Michael Gunn, lessee of the Gaiety Theatre, 46, 47, 48,
49 South King street, and to be introduced into the sixth scene, the 49 South King street, and to be introduced into the sixth scene, the
valley of diamonds, of the second edition (30 January 1893) of the grand valley of diamonds, of the second edition (30 January 1893) of the grand
annual Christmas pantomime SINBAD THE SAILOR (produced by R Shelton 26 annual Christmas pantomime SINBAD THE SAILOR (produced by R Shelton 26
December 1892, written by Greenleaf Whittier, scenery by George A. December 1892, written by Greenleaf Whittier, scenery by George A.
Jackson and Cecil Hicks, costumes by Mrs and Miss Whelan under the Jackson and Cecil Hicks, costumes by Mrs and Miss Whelan under the
personal supervision of Mrs Michael Gunn, ballets by Jessie Noir, personal supervision of Mrs Michael Gunn, ballets by Jessie Noir,
harlequinade by Thomas Otto) and sung by Nelly Bouverist, principal girl? harlequinade by Thomas Otto) and sung by Nelly Bouverist, principal girl?
Firstly, oscillation between events of imperial and of local interest, Firstly, oscillation between events of imperial and of local interest,
the anticipated diamond jubilee of Queen Victoria (born 1820, acceded the anticipated diamond jubilee of Queen Victoria (born 1820, acceded
1837) and the posticipated opening of the new municipal fish market: 1837) and the posticipated opening of the new municipal fish market:
secondly, apprehension of opposition from extreme circles on the secondly, apprehension of opposition from extreme circles on the
questions of the respective visits of Their Royal Highnesses the duke and questions of the respective visits of Their Royal Highnesses the duke and
duchess of York (real) and of His Majesty King Brian Boru (imaginary): duchess of York (real) and of His Majesty King Brian Boru (imaginary):
thirdly, a conflict between professional etiquette and professional thirdly, a conflict between professional etiquette and professional
emulation concerning the recent erections of the Grand Lyric Hall on emulation concerning the recent erections of the Grand Lyric Hall on
Burgh Quay and the Theatre Royal in Hawkins street: fourthly, distraction Burgh Quay and the Theatre Royal in Hawkins street: fourthly, distraction
resultant from compassion for Nelly Bouverist's non-intellectual, non- resultant from compassion for Nelly Bouverist's non-intellectual, non-
political, non-topical expression of countenance and concupiscence caused political, non-topical expression of countenance and concupiscence caused
by Nelly Bouverist's revelations of white articles of non-intellectual, by Nelly Bouverist's revelations of white articles of non-intellectual,
non-political, non-topical underclothing while she (Nelly Bouverist) was non-political, non-topical underclothing while she (Nelly Bouverist) was
in the articles: fifthly, the difficulties of the selection of in the articles: fifthly, the difficulties of the selection of
appropriate music and humorous allusions from EVERYBODY'S BOOK OF JOKES appropriate music and humorous allusions from EVERYBODY'S BOOK OF JOKES
(1000 pages and a laugh in every one): sixthly, the rhymes, homophonous (1000 pages and a laugh in every one): sixthly, the rhymes, homophonous
and cacophonous, associated with the names of the new lord mayor, Daniel and cacophonous, associated with the names of the new lord mayor, Daniel
Tallon, the new high sheriff, Thomas Pile and the new solicitorgeneral, Tallon, the new high sheriff, Thomas Pile and the new solicitorgeneral,
Dunbar Plunket Barton. Dunbar Plunket Barton.
What relation existed between their ages? What relation existed between their ages?
16 years before in 1888 when Bloom was of Stephen's present age Stephen 16 years before in 1888 when Bloom was of Stephen's present age Stephen
was 6. 16 years after in 1920 when Stephen would be of Bloom's present was 6. 16 years after in 1920 when Stephen would be of Bloom's present
age Bloom would be 54. In 1936 when Bloom would be 70 and Stephen 54 age Bloom would be 54. In 1936 when Bloom would be 70 and Stephen 54
their ages initially in the ratio of 16 to 0 would be as 17 1/2 to 13 their ages initially in the ratio of 16 to 0 would be as 17 1/2 to 13
1/2, the proportion increasing and the disparity diminishing according as 1/2, the proportion increasing and the disparity diminishing according as
arbitrary future years were added, for if the proportion existing in 1883 arbitrary future years were added, for if the proportion existing in 1883
had continued immutable, conceiving that to be possible, till then 1904 had continued immutable, conceiving that to be possible, till then 1904
when Stephen was 22 Bloom would be 374 and in 1920 when Stephen would be when Stephen was 22 Bloom would be 374 and in 1920 when Stephen would be
38, as Bloom then was, Bloom would be 646 while in 1952 when Stephen 38, as Bloom then was, Bloom would be 646 while in 1952 when Stephen
would have attained the maximum postdiluvian age of 70 Bloom, being 1190 would have attained the maximum postdiluvian age of 70 Bloom, being 1190
years alive having been born in the year 714, would have surpassed by 221 years alive having been born in the year 714, would have surpassed by 221
years the maximum antediluvian age, that of Methusalah, 969 years, while, years the maximum antediluvian age, that of Methusalah, 969 years, while,
if Stephen would continue to live until he would attain that age in the if Stephen would continue to live until he would attain that age in the
year 3072 A.D., Bloomwould have been obliged to have been alive 83,300 year 3072 A.D., Bloomwould have been obliged to have been alive 83,300
years, having been obliged to have been born in the year 81,396 B.C. years, having been obliged to have been born in the year 81,396 B.C.
What events might nullify these calculations? What events might nullify these calculations?
The cessation of existence of both or either, the inauguration of a new The cessation of existence of both or either, the inauguration of a new
era or calendar, the annihilation of the world and consequent era or calendar, the annihilation of the world and consequent
extermination of the human species, inevitable but impredictable. extermination of the human species, inevitable but impredictable.
How many previous encounters proved their preexisting acquaintance? How many previous encounters proved their preexisting acquaintance?
Two. The first in the lilacgarden of Matthew Dillon's house, Medina Two. The first in the lilacgarden of Matthew Dillon's house, Medina
Villa, Kimmage road, Roundtown, in 1887, in the company of Stephen's Villa, Kimmage road, Roundtown, in 1887, in the company of Stephen's
mother, Stephen being then of the age of 5 and reluctant to give his hand mother, Stephen being then of the age of 5 and reluctant to give his hand
in salutation. The second in the coffeeroom of Breslin's hotel on a rainy in salutation. The second in the coffeeroom of Breslin's hotel on a rainy
Sunday in the January of 1892, in the company of Stephen's father and Sunday in the January of 1892, in the company of Stephen's father and
Stephen's granduncle, Stephen being then 5 years older. Stephen's granduncle, Stephen being then 5 years older.
Did Bloom accept the invitation to dinner given then by the son and Did Bloom accept the invitation to dinner given then by the son and
afterwards seconded by the father? afterwards seconded by the father?
Very gratefully, with grateful appreciation, with sincere appreciative Very gratefully, with grateful appreciation, with sincere appreciative
gratitude, in appreciatively grateful sincerity of regret, he declined. gratitude, in appreciatively grateful sincerity of regret, he declined.
Did their conversation on the subject of these reminiscences reveal a Did their conversation on the subject of these reminiscences reveal a
third connecting link between them? third connecting link between them?
Mrs Riordan (Dante), a widow of independent means, had resided in the Mrs Riordan (Dante), a widow of independent means, had resided in the
house of Stephen's parents from 1 September 1888 to 29 December 1891 and house of Stephen's parents from 1 September 1888 to 29 December 1891 and
had also resided during the years 1892, 1893 and 1894 in the City Arms had also resided during the years 1892, 1893 and 1894 in the City Arms
Hotel owned by Elizabeth O'Dowd of 54 Prussia street where, during parts Hotel owned by Elizabeth O'Dowd of 54 Prussia street where, during parts
of the years 1893 and 1894, she had been a constant informant of Bloom of the years 1893 and 1894, she had been a constant informant of Bloom
who resided also in the same hotel, being at that time a clerk in the who resided also in the same hotel, being at that time a clerk in the
employment of Joseph Cuffe of 5 Smithfield for the superintendence of employment of Joseph Cuffe of 5 Smithfield for the superintendence of
sales in the adjacent Dublin Cattle market on the North Circular road. sales in the adjacent Dublin Cattle market on the North Circular road.
Had he performed any special corporal work of mercy for her? Had he performed any special corporal work of mercy for her?
He had sometimes propelled her on warm summer evenings, an infirm widow He had sometimes propelled her on warm summer evenings, an infirm widow
of independent, if limited, means, in her convalescent bathchair with of independent, if limited, means, in her convalescent bathchair with
slow revolutions of its wheels as far as the corner of the North Circular slow revolutions of its wheels as far as the corner of the North Circular
road opposite Mr Gavin Low's place of business where she had remained for road opposite Mr Gavin Low's place of business where she had remained for
a certain time scanning through his onelensed binocular fieldglasses a certain time scanning through his onelensed binocular fieldglasses
unrecognisable citizens on tramcars, roadster bicycles equipped with unrecognisable citizens on tramcars, roadster bicycles equipped with
inflated pneumatic tyres, hackney carriages, tandems, private and hired inflated pneumatic tyres, hackney carriages, tandems, private and hired
landaus, dogcarts, ponytraps and brakes passing from the city to the landaus, dogcarts, ponytraps and brakes passing from the city to the
Phoenix Park and vice versa. Phoenix Park and vice versa.
Why could he then support that his vigil with the greater equanimity? Why could he then support that his vigil with the greater equanimity?
Because in middle youth he had often sat observing through a rondel of Because in middle youth he had often sat observing through a rondel of
bossed glass of a multicoloured pane the spectacle offered with continual bossed glass of a multicoloured pane the spectacle offered with continual
changes of the thoroughfare without, pedestrians, quadrupeds, changes of the thoroughfare without, pedestrians, quadrupeds,
velocipedes, vehicles, passing slowly, quickly, evenly, round and round velocipedes, vehicles, passing slowly, quickly, evenly, round and round
and round the rim of a round and round precipitous globe. and round the rim of a round and round precipitous globe.
What distinct different memories had each of her now eight years What distinct different memories had each of her now eight years
deceased? deceased?
The older, her bezique cards and counters, her Skye terrier, her The older, her bezique cards and counters, her Skye terrier, her
suppositious wealth, her lapses of responsiveness and incipient catarrhal suppositious wealth, her lapses of responsiveness and incipient catarrhal
deafness: the younger, her lamp of colza oil before the statue of the deafness: the younger, her lamp of colza oil before the statue of the
Immaculate Conception, her green and maroon brushes for Charles Stewart Immaculate Conception, her green and maroon brushes for Charles Stewart
Parnell and for Michael Davitt, her tissue papers. Parnell and for Michael Davitt, her tissue papers.
Were there no means still remaining to him to achieve the rejuvenation Were there no means still remaining to him to achieve the rejuvenation
which these reminiscences divulged to a younger companion rendered the which these reminiscences divulged to a younger companion rendered the
more desirable? more desirable?
The indoor exercises, formerly intermittently practised, subsequently The indoor exercises, formerly intermittently practised, subsequently
abandoned, prescribed in Eugen Sandow's PHYSICAL STRENGTH AND HOW TO abandoned, prescribed in Eugen Sandow's PHYSICAL STRENGTH AND HOW TO
OBTAIN IT which, designed particularly for commercial men engaged in OBTAIN IT which, designed particularly for commercial men engaged in
sedentary occupations, were to be made with mental concentration in front sedentary occupations, were to be made with mental concentration in front
of a mirror so as to bring into play the various families of muscles and of a mirror so as to bring into play the various families of muscles and
produce successively a pleasant rigidity, a more pleasant relaxation and produce successively a pleasant rigidity, a more pleasant relaxation and
the most pleasant repristination of juvenile agility. the most pleasant repristination of juvenile agility.
Had any special agility been his in earlier youth? Had any special agility been his in earlier youth?
Though ringweight lifting had been beyond his strength and the full Though ringweight lifting had been beyond his strength and the full
circle gyration beyond his courage yet as a High school scholar he had circle gyration beyond his courage yet as a High school scholar he had
excelled in his stable and protracted execution of the half lever excelled in his stable and protracted execution of the half lever
movement on the parallel bars in consequence of his abnormally developed movement on the parallel bars in consequence of his abnormally developed
abdominal muscles. abdominal muscles.
Did either openly allude to their racial difference? Did either openly allude to their racial difference?
Neither. Neither.
What, reduced to their simplest reciprocal form, were Bloom's thoughts What, reduced to their simplest reciprocal form, were Bloom's thoughts
about Stephen's thoughts about Bloom and about Stephen's thoughts about about Stephen's thoughts about Bloom and about Stephen's thoughts about
Bloom's thoughts about Stephen? Bloom's thoughts about Stephen?
He thought that he thought that he was a jew whereas he knew that he knew He thought that he thought that he was a jew whereas he knew that he knew
that he knew that he was not. that he knew that he was not.
What, the enclosures of reticence removed, were their respective What, the enclosures of reticence removed, were their respective
parentages? parentages?
Bloom, only born male transubstantial heir of Rudolf Virag (subsequently Bloom, only born male transubstantial heir of Rudolf Virag (subsequently
Rudolph Bloom) of Szombathely, Vienna, Budapest, Milan, London and Dublin Rudolph Bloom) of Szombathely, Vienna, Budapest, Milan, London and Dublin
and of Ellen Higgins, second daughter of Julius Higgins (born Karoly) and and of Ellen Higgins, second daughter of Julius Higgins (born Karoly) and
Fanny Higgins (born Hegarty). Stephen, eldest surviving male Fanny Higgins (born Hegarty). Stephen, eldest surviving male
consubstantial heir of Simon Dedalus of Cork and Dublin and of Mary, consubstantial heir of Simon Dedalus of Cork and Dublin and of Mary,
daughter of Richard and Christina Goulding (born Grier). daughter of Richard and Christina Goulding (born Grier).
Had Bloom and Stephen been baptised, and where and by whom, cleric or Had Bloom and Stephen been baptised, and where and by whom, cleric or
layman? layman?
Bloom (three times), by the reverend Mr Gilmer Johnston M. A., alone, in Bloom (three times), by the reverend Mr Gilmer Johnston M. A., alone, in
the protestant church of Saint Nicholas Without, Coombe, by James the protestant church of Saint Nicholas Without, Coombe, by James
O'Connor, Philip Gilligan and James Fitzpatrick, together, under a pump O'Connor, Philip Gilligan and James Fitzpatrick, together, under a pump
in the village of Swords, and by the reverend Charles Malone C. C., in in the village of Swords, and by the reverend Charles Malone C. C., in
the church of the Three Patrons, Rathgar. Stephen (once) by the reverend the church of the Three Patrons, Rathgar. Stephen (once) by the reverend
Charles Malone C. C., alone, in the church of the Three Patrons, Rathgar. Charles Malone C. C., alone, in the church of the Three Patrons, Rathgar.
Did they find their educational careers similar? Did they find their educational careers similar?
Substituting Stephen for Bloom Stoom would have passed successively Substituting Stephen for Bloom Stoom would have passed successively
through a dame's school and the high school. Substituting Bloom for through a dame's school and the high school. Substituting Bloom for
Stephen Blephen would have passed successively through the preparatory, Stephen Blephen would have passed successively through the preparatory,
junior, middle and senior grades of the intermediate and through the junior, middle and senior grades of the intermediate and through the
matriculation, first arts, second arts and arts degree courses of the matriculation, first arts, second arts and arts degree courses of the
royal university. royal university.
Why did Bloom refrain from stating that he had frequented the university Why did Bloom refrain from stating that he had frequented the university
of life? of life?
Because of his fluctuating incertitude as to whether this observation had Because of his fluctuating incertitude as to whether this observation had
or had not been already made by him to Stephen or by Stephen to him. or had not been already made by him to Stephen or by Stephen to him.
What two temperaments did they individually represent? What two temperaments did they individually represent?
The scientific. The artistic. The scientific. The artistic.
What proofs did Bloom adduce to prove that his tendency was towards What proofs did Bloom adduce to prove that his tendency was towards
applied, rather than towards pure, science? applied, rather than towards pure, science?
Certain possible inventions of which he had cogitated when reclining in a Certain possible inventions of which he had cogitated when reclining in a
state of supine repletion to aid digestion, stimulated by his state of supine repletion to aid digestion, stimulated by his
appreciation of the importance of inventions now common but once appreciation of the importance of inventions now common but once
revolutionary, for example, the aeronautic parachute, the reflecting revolutionary, for example, the aeronautic parachute, the reflecting
telescope, the spiral corkscrew, the safety pin, the mineral water telescope, the spiral corkscrew, the safety pin, the mineral water
siphon, the canal lock with winch and sluice, the suction pump. siphon, the canal lock with winch and sluice, the suction pump.
Were these inventions principally intended for an improved scheme of Were these inventions principally intended for an improved scheme of
kindergarten? kindergarten?
Yes, rendering obsolete popguns, elastic airbladders, games of hazard, Yes, rendering obsolete popguns, elastic airbladders, games of hazard,
catapults. They comprised astronomical kaleidoscopes exhibiting the catapults. They comprised astronomical kaleidoscopes exhibiting the
twelve constellations of the zodiac from Aries to Pisces, miniature twelve constellations of the zodiac from Aries to Pisces, miniature
mechanical orreries, arithmetical gelatine lozenges, geometrical to mechanical orreries, arithmetical gelatine lozenges, geometrical to
correspond with zoological biscuits, globemap playing balls, historically correspond with zoological biscuits, globemap playing balls, historically
costumed dolls. costumed dolls.
What also stimulated him in his cogitations? What also stimulated him in his cogitations?
The financial success achieved by Ephraim Marks and Charles A. James, the The financial success achieved by Ephraim Marks and Charles A. James, the
former by his 1d bazaar at 42 George's street, south, the latter at his former by his 1d bazaar at 42 George's street, south, the latter at his
6-1/2d shop and world's fancy fair and waxwork exhibition at 30 Henry 6-1/2d shop and world's fancy fair and waxwork exhibition at 30 Henry
street, admission 2d, children 1d: and the infinite possibilities street, admission 2d, children 1d: and the infinite possibilities
hitherto unexploited of the modern art of advertisement if condensed in hitherto unexploited of the modern art of advertisement if condensed in
triliteral monoideal symbols, vertically of maximum visibility (divined), triliteral monoideal symbols, vertically of maximum visibility (divined),
horizontally of maximum legibility (deciphered) and of magnetising horizontally of maximum legibility (deciphered) and of magnetising
efficacy to arrest involuntary attention, to interest, to convince, to efficacy to arrest involuntary attention, to interest, to convince, to
decide. decide.
Such as? Such as?
K. II. Kino's 11/- Trousers. House of Keys. Alexander J. Keyes. K. II. Kino's 11/- Trousers. House of Keys. Alexander J. Keyes.
Such as not? Such as not?
Look at this long candle. Calculate when it burns out and you receive Look at this long candle. Calculate when it burns out and you receive
gratis 1 pair of our special non-compo boots, guaranteed 1 candle power. gratis 1 pair of our special non-compo boots, guaranteed 1 candle power.
Address: Barclay and Cook, 18 Talbot street. Address: Barclay and Cook, 18 Talbot street.
Bacilikil (Insect Powder). Veribest (Boot Blacking). Uwantit (Combined Bacilikil (Insect Powder). Veribest (Boot Blacking). Uwantit (Combined
pocket twoblade penknife with corkscrew, nailfile and pipecleaner). pocket twoblade penknife with corkscrew, nailfile and pipecleaner).
Such as never? Such as never?
What is home without Plumtree's Potted Meat? What is home without Plumtree's Potted Meat?
Incomplete. Incomplete.
With it an abode of bliss. With it an abode of bliss.
Manufactured by George Plumtree, 23 Merchants' quay, Dublin, put up in 4 Manufactured by George Plumtree, 23 Merchants' quay, Dublin, put up in 4
oz pots, and inserted by Councillor Joseph P. Nannetti, M. P., Rotunda oz pots, and inserted by Councillor Joseph P. Nannetti, M. P., Rotunda
Ward, 19 Hardwicke street, under the obituary notices and anniversaries Ward, 19 Hardwicke street, under the obituary notices and anniversaries
of deceases. The name on the label is Plumtree. A plumtree in a meatpot, of deceases. The name on the label is Plumtree. A plumtree in a meatpot,
registered trade mark. Beware of imitations. Peatmot. Trumplee. Moutpat. registered trade mark. Beware of imitations. Peatmot. Trumplee. Moutpat.
Plamtroo. Plamtroo.
Which example did he adduce to induce Stephen to deduce that originality, Which example did he adduce to induce Stephen to deduce that originality,
though producing its own reward, does not invariably conduce to success? though producing its own reward, does not invariably conduce to success?
His own ideated and rejected project of an illuminated showcart, drawn by His own ideated and rejected project of an illuminated showcart, drawn by
a beast of burden, in which two smartly dressed girls were to be seated a beast of burden, in which two smartly dressed girls were to be seated
engaged in writing. engaged in writing.
What suggested scene was then constructed by Stephen? What suggested scene was then constructed by Stephen?
Solitary hotel in mountain pass. Autumn. Twilight. Fire lit. In dark Solitary hotel in mountain pass. Autumn. Twilight. Fire lit. In dark
corner young man seated. Young woman enters. Restless. Solitary. She corner young man seated. Young woman enters. Restless. Solitary. She
sits. She goes to window. She stands. She sits. Twilight. She thinks. On sits. She goes to window. She stands. She sits. Twilight. She thinks. On
solitary hotel paper she writes. She thinks. She writes. She sighs. solitary hotel paper she writes. She thinks. She writes. She sighs.
Wheels and hoofs. She hurries out. He comes from his dark corner. He Wheels and hoofs. She hurries out. He comes from his dark corner. He
seizes solitary paper. He holds it towards fire. Twilight. He reads. seizes solitary paper. He holds it towards fire. Twilight. He reads.
Solitary. Solitary.
What? What?
In sloping, upright and backhands: Queen's Hotel, Queen's Hotel, Queen's In sloping, upright and backhands: Queen's Hotel, Queen's Hotel, Queen's
Hotel. Queen's Ho... Hotel. Queen's Ho...
What suggested scene was then reconstructed by Bloom? What suggested scene was then reconstructed by Bloom?
The Queen's Hotel, Ennis, county Clare, where Rudolph Bloom (Rudolf The Queen's Hotel, Ennis, county Clare, where Rudolph Bloom (Rudolf
Virag) died on the evening of the 27 June 1886, at some hour unstated, in Virag) died on the evening of the 27 June 1886, at some hour unstated, in
consequence of an overdose of monkshood (aconite) selfadministered in the consequence of an overdose of monkshood (aconite) selfadministered in the
form of a neuralgic liniment composed of 2 parts of aconite liniment to I form of a neuralgic liniment composed of 2 parts of aconite liniment to I
of chloroform liniment (purchased by him at 10.20 a.m. on the morning of of chloroform liniment (purchased by him at 10.20 a.m. on the morning of
27 June 1886 at the medical hall of Francis Dennehy, 17 Church street, 27 June 1886 at the medical hall of Francis Dennehy, 17 Church street,
Ennis) after having, though not in consequence of having, purchased at Ennis) after having, though not in consequence of having, purchased at
3.15 p.m. on the afternoon of 27 June 1886 a new boater straw hat, extra 3.15 p.m. on the afternoon of 27 June 1886 a new boater straw hat, extra
smart (after having, though not in consequence of having, purchased at smart (after having, though not in consequence of having, purchased at
the hour and in the place aforesaid, the toxin aforesaid), at the general the hour and in the place aforesaid, the toxin aforesaid), at the general
drapery store of James Cullen, 4 Main street, Ennis. drapery store of James Cullen, 4 Main street, Ennis.
Did he attribute this homonymity to information or coincidence or Did he attribute this homonymity to information or coincidence or
intuition? intuition?
Coincidence. Coincidence.
Did he depict the scene verbally for his guest to see? Did he depict the scene verbally for his guest to see?
He preferred himself to see another's face and listen to another's words He preferred himself to see another's face and listen to another's words
by which potential narration was realised and kinetic temperament by which potential narration was realised and kinetic temperament
relieved. relieved.
Did he see only a second coincidence in the second scene narrated to him, Did he see only a second coincidence in the second scene narrated to him,
described by the narrator as A PISGAH SIGHT OF PALESTINE OR THE PARABLE described by the narrator as A PISGAH SIGHT OF PALESTINE OR THE PARABLE
OF THE PLUMS? OF THE PLUMS?
It, with the preceding scene and with others unnarrated but existent by It, with the preceding scene and with others unnarrated but existent by
implication, to which add essays on various subjects or moral apothegms implication, to which add essays on various subjects or moral apothegms
(e.g. MY FAVOURITE HERO OR PROCRASTINATION IS THE THIEF OF TIME) composed (e.g. MY FAVOURITE HERO OR PROCRASTINATION IS THE THIEF OF TIME) composed
during schoolyears, seemed to him to contain in itself and in conjunction during schoolyears, seemed to him to contain in itself and in conjunction
with the personal equation certain possibilities of financial, social, with the personal equation certain possibilities of financial, social,
personal and sexual success, whether specially collected and selected as personal and sexual success, whether specially collected and selected as
model pedagogic themes (of cent per cent merit) for the use of model pedagogic themes (of cent per cent merit) for the use of
preparatory and junior grade students or contributed in printed form, preparatory and junior grade students or contributed in printed form,
following the precedent of Philip Beaufoy or Doctor Dick or Heblon's following the precedent of Philip Beaufoy or Doctor Dick or Heblon's
STUDIES IN BLUE, to a publication of certified circulation and solvency STUDIES IN BLUE, to a publication of certified circulation and solvency
or employed verbally as intellectual stimulation for sympathetic or employed verbally as intellectual stimulation for sympathetic
auditors, tacitly appreciative of successful narrative and confidently auditors, tacitly appreciative of successful narrative and confidently
augurative of successful achievement, during the increasingly longer augurative of successful achievement, during the increasingly longer
nights gradually following the summer solstice on the day but three nights gradually following the summer solstice on the day but three
following, videlicet, Tuesday, 21 June (S. Aloysius Gonzaga), sunrise following, videlicet, Tuesday, 21 June (S. Aloysius Gonzaga), sunrise
3.33 a.m., sunset 8.29 p.m. 3.33 a.m., sunset 8.29 p.m.
Which domestic problem as much as, if not more than, any other frequently Which domestic problem as much as, if not more than, any other frequently
engaged his mind? engaged his mind?
What to do with our wives. What to do with our wives.
What had been his hypothetical singular solutions? What had been his hypothetical singular solutions?
Parlour games (dominos, halma, tiddledywinks, spilikins, cup and ball, Parlour games (dominos, halma, tiddledywinks, spilikins, cup and ball,
nap, spoil five, bezique, twentyfive, beggar my neighbour, draughts, nap, spoil five, bezique, twentyfive, beggar my neighbour, draughts,
chess or backgammon): embroidery, darning or knitting for the policeaided chess or backgammon): embroidery, darning or knitting for the policeaided
clothing society: musical duets, mandoline and guitar, piano and flute, clothing society: musical duets, mandoline and guitar, piano and flute,
guitar and piano: legal scrivenery or envelope addressing: biweekly guitar and piano: legal scrivenery or envelope addressing: biweekly
visits to variety entertainments: commercial activity as pleasantly visits to variety entertainments: commercial activity as pleasantly
commanding and pleasingly obeyed mistress proprietress in a cool dairy commanding and pleasingly obeyed mistress proprietress in a cool dairy
shop or warm cigar divan: the clandestine satisfaction of erotic shop or warm cigar divan: the clandestine satisfaction of erotic
irritation in masculine brothels, state inspected and medically irritation in masculine brothels, state inspected and medically
controlled: social visits, at regular infrequent prevented intervals and controlled: social visits, at regular infrequent prevented intervals and
with regular frequent preventive superintendence, to and from female with regular frequent preventive superintendence, to and from female
acquaintances of recognised respectability in the vicinity: courses of acquaintances of recognised respectability in the vicinity: courses of
evening instruction specially designed to render liberal instruction evening instruction specially designed to render liberal instruction
agreeable. agreeable.
What instances of deficient mental development in his wife inclined him What instances of deficient mental development in his wife inclined him
in favour of the lastmentioned (ninth) solution? in favour of the lastmentioned (ninth) solution?
In disoccupied moments she had more than once covered a sheet of paper In disoccupied moments she had more than once covered a sheet of paper
with signs and hieroglyphics which she stated were Greek and Irish and with signs and hieroglyphics which she stated were Greek and Irish and
Hebrew characters. She had interrogated constantly at varying intervals Hebrew characters. She had interrogated constantly at varying intervals
as to the correct method of writing the capital initial of the name of a as to the correct method of writing the capital initial of the name of a
city in Canada, Quebec. She understood little of political complications, city in Canada, Quebec. She understood little of political complications,
internal, or balance of power, external. In calculating the addenda of internal, or balance of power, external. In calculating the addenda of
bills she frequently had recourse to digital aid. After completion of bills she frequently had recourse to digital aid. After completion of
Fehrenbach's, carrying a pound and a half of porksteaks. Fehrenbach's, carrying a pound and a half of porksteaks.
--There was a long spread out at Glencree reformatory, Lenehan said --There was a long spread out at Glencree reformatory, Lenehan said
eagerly. The annual dinner, you know. Boiled shirt affair. The lord mayor eagerly. The annual dinner, you know. Boiled shirt affair. The lord mayor
was there, Val Dillon it was, and sir Charles Cameron and Dan Dawson was there, Val Dillon it was, and sir Charles Cameron and Dan Dawson
spoke and there was music. Bartell d'Arcy sang and Benjamin Dollard ... spoke and there was music. Bartell d'Arcy sang and Benjamin Dollard ...
--I know, M'Coy broke in. My missus sang there once. --I know, M'Coy broke in. My missus sang there once.
--Did she? Lenehan said. --Did she? Lenehan said.
A card UNFURNISHED APARTMENTS reappeared on the windowsash of A card UNFURNISHED APARTMENTS reappeared on the windowsash of
number 7 Eccles street. number 7 Eccles street.
He checked his tale a moment but broke out in a wheezy laugh. He checked his tale a moment but broke out in a wheezy laugh.
--But wait till I tell you, he said. Delahunt of Camden street had the --But wait till I tell you, he said. Delahunt of Camden street had the
catering and yours truly was chief bottlewasher. Bloom and the wife were catering and yours truly was chief bottlewasher. Bloom and the wife were
there. Lashings of stuff we put up: port wine and sherry and curacao to there. Lashings of stuff we put up: port wine and sherry and curacao to
which we did ample justice. Fast and furious it was. After liquids came which we did ample justice. Fast and furious it was. After liquids came
solids. Cold joints galore and mince pies ... solids. Cold joints galore and mince pies ...
--I know, M'Coy said. The year the missus was there ... --I know, M'Coy said. The year the missus was there ...
Lenehan linked his arm warmly. Lenehan linked his arm warmly.
--But wait till I tell you, he said. We had a midnight lunch too after all --But wait till I tell you, he said. We had a midnight lunch too after all
the jollification and when we sallied forth it was blue o'clock the the jollification and when we sallied forth it was blue o'clock the
morning after the night before. Coming home it was a gorgeous winter's morning after the night before. Coming home it was a gorgeous winter's
night on the Featherbed Mountain. Bloom and Chris Callinan were on one night on the Featherbed Mountain. Bloom and Chris Callinan were on one
side of the car and I was with the wife on the other. We started singing side of the car and I was with the wife on the other. We started singing
glees and duets: LO, THE EARLY BEAM OF MORNING. She was well primed with a glees and duets: LO, THE EARLY BEAM OF MORNING. She was well primed with a
good load of Delahunt's port under her bellyband. Every jolt the bloody good load of Delahunt's port under her bellyband. Every jolt the bloody
car gave I had her bumping up against me. Hell's delights! She has a fine car gave I had her bumping up against me. Hell's delights! She has a fine
pair, God bless her. Like that. pair, God bless her. Like that.
He held his caved hands a cubit from him, frowning: He held his caved hands a cubit from him, frowning:
--I was tucking the rug under her and settling her boa all the time. Know --I was tucking the rug under her and settling her boa all the time. Know
what I mean? what I mean?
His hands moulded ample curves of air. He shut his eyes tight in His hands moulded ample curves of air. He shut his eyes tight in
delight, his body shrinking, and blew a sweet chirp from his lips. delight, his body shrinking, and blew a sweet chirp from his lips.
--The lad stood to attention anyhow, he said with a sigh. She's a gamey --The lad stood to attention anyhow, he said with a sigh. She's a gamey
mare and no mistake. Bloom was pointing out all the stars and the comets mare and no mistake. Bloom was pointing out all the stars and the comets
in the heavens to Chris Callinan and the jarvey: the great bear and in the heavens to Chris Callinan and the jarvey: the great bear and
Hercules and the dragon, and the whole jingbang lot. But, by God, I was Hercules and the dragon, and the whole jingbang lot. But, by God, I was
lost, so to speak, in the milky way. He knows them all, faith. At last she lost, so to speak, in the milky way. He knows them all, faith. At last she
spotted a weeny weeshy one miles away. AND WHAT STAR IS THAT, POLDY? says spotted a weeny weeshy one miles away. AND WHAT STAR IS THAT, POLDY? says
she. By God, she had Bloom cornered. THAT ONE, IS IT? says Chris Callinan, she. By God, she had Bloom cornered. THAT ONE, IS IT? says Chris Callinan,
SURE THAT'S ONLY WHAT YOU MIGHT CALL A PINPRICK. By God, he wasn't far SURE THAT'S ONLY WHAT YOU MIGHT CALL A PINPRICK. By God, he wasn't far
wide of the mark. wide of the mark.
Lenehan stopped and leaned on the riverwall, panting with soft Lenehan stopped and leaned on the riverwall, panting with soft
laughter. laughter.
--I'm weak, he gasped. --I'm weak, he gasped.
M'Coy's white face smiled about it at instants and grew grave. M'Coy's white face smiled about it at instants and grew grave.
Lenehan walked on again. He lifted his yachtingcap and scratched his Lenehan walked on again. He lifted his yachtingcap and scratched his
hindhead rapidly. He glanced sideways in the sunlight at M'Coy. hindhead rapidly. He glanced sideways in the sunlight at M'Coy.
--He's a cultured allroundman, Bloom is, he said seriously. He's not one --He's a cultured allroundman, Bloom is, he said seriously. He's not one
of your common or garden ... you know ... There's a touch of the artist of your common or garden ... you know ... There's a touch of the artist
about old Bloom. about old Bloom.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
Mr Bloom turned over idly pages of THE AWFUL DISCLOSURES OF MARIA Mr Bloom turned over idly pages of THE AWFUL DISCLOSURES OF MARIA
MONK, then of Aristotle's MASTERPIECE. Crooked botched print. Plates: MONK, then of Aristotle's MASTERPIECE. Crooked botched print. Plates:
infants cuddled in a ball in bloodred wombs like livers of slaughtered infants cuddled in a ball in bloodred wombs like livers of slaughtered
cows. Lots of them like that at this moment all over the world. All cows. Lots of them like that at this moment all over the world. All
butting with their skulls to get out of it. Child born every minute butting with their skulls to get out of it. Child born every minute
somewhere. Mrs Purefoy. somewhere. Mrs Purefoy.
He laid both books aside and glanced at the third: TALES OF THE GHETTO He laid both books aside and glanced at the third: TALES OF THE GHETTO
by Leopold von Sacher Masoch. by Leopold von Sacher Masoch.
--That I had, he said, pushing it by. --That I had, he said, pushing it by.
The shopman let two volumes fall on the counter. The shopman let two volumes fall on the counter.
--Them are two good ones, he said. --Them are two good ones, he said.
Onions of his breath came across the counter out of his ruined Onions of his breath came across the counter out of his ruined
mouth. He bent to make a bundle of the other books, hugged them against mouth. He bent to make a bundle of the other books, hugged them against
his unbuttoned waistcoat and bore them off behind the dingy curtain. his unbuttoned waistcoat and bore them off behind the dingy curtain.
On O'Connell bridge many persons observed the grave deportment On O'Connell bridge many persons observed the grave deportment
and gay apparel of Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c. and gay apparel of Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c.
Mr Bloom, alone, looked at the titles. FAIR TYRANTS by James Lovebirch. Mr Bloom, alone, looked at the titles. FAIR TYRANTS by James Lovebirch.
Know the kind that is. Had it? Yes. Know the kind that is. Had it? Yes.
He opened it. Thought so. He opened it. Thought so.
A woman's voice behind the dingy curtain. Listen: the man. A woman's voice behind the dingy curtain. Listen: the man.
No: she wouldn't like that much. Got her it once. No: she wouldn't like that much. Got her it once.
He read the other title: SWEETS OF SIN. More in her line. Let us see. He read the other title: SWEETS OF SIN. More in her line. Let us see.
He read where his finger opened. He read where his finger opened.
--ALL THE DOLLARBILLS HER HUSBAND GAVE HER WERE SPENT IN THE STORES ON --ALL THE DOLLARBILLS HER HUSBAND GAVE HER WERE SPENT IN THE STORES ON
WONDROUS GOWNS AND COSTLIEST FRILLIES. FOR HIM! FOR RAOUL! WONDROUS GOWNS AND COSTLIEST FRILLIES. FOR HIM! FOR RAOUL!
Yes. This. Here. Try. Yes. This. Here. Try.
--HER MOUTH GLUED ON HIS IN A LUSCIOUS VOLUPTUOUS KISS WHILE HIS HANDS --HER MOUTH GLUED ON HIS IN A LUSCIOUS VOLUPTUOUS KISS WHILE HIS HANDS
FELT FOR THE OPULENT CURVES INSIDE HER DESHABILLE. FELT FOR THE OPULENT CURVES INSIDE HER DESHABILLE.
Yes. Take this. The end. Yes. Take this. The end.
--YOU ARE LATE, HE SPOKE HOARSELY, EYING HER WITH A SUSPICIOUS GLARE. --YOU ARE LATE, HE SPOKE HOARSELY, EYING HER WITH A SUSPICIOUS GLARE.
THE BEAUTIFUL WOMAN THREW OFF HER SABLETRIMMED WRAP, DISPLAYING HER THE BEAUTIFUL WOMAN THREW OFF HER SABLETRIMMED WRAP, DISPLAYING HER
QUEENLY SHOULDERS AND HEAVING EMBONPOINT. AN IMPERCEPTIBLE SMILE PLAYED QUEENLY SHOULDERS AND HEAVING EMBONPOINT. AN IMPERCEPTIBLE SMILE PLAYED
ROUND HER PERFECT LIPS AS SHE TURNED TO HIM CALMLY. ROUND HER PERFECT LIPS AS SHE TURNED TO HIM CALMLY.
Mr Bloom read again: THE BEAUTIFUL WOMAN. Mr Bloom read again: THE BEAUTIFUL WOMAN.
Warmth showered gently over him, cowing his flesh. Flesh yielded Warmth showered gently over him, cowing his flesh. Flesh yielded
amply amid rumpled clothes: whites of eyes swooning up. His nostrils amply amid rumpled clothes: whites of eyes swooning up. His nostrils
arched themselves for prey. Melting breast ointments (FOR HIM! FOR arched themselves for prey. Melting breast ointments (FOR HIM! FOR
RAOUL!). Armpits' oniony sweat. Fishgluey slime (HER HEAVING EMBONPOINT!). RAOUL!). Armpits' oniony sweat. Fishgluey slime (HER HEAVING EMBONPOINT!).
Feel! Press! Crushed! Sulphur dung of lions! Feel! Press! Crushed! Sulphur dung of lions!
Young! Young! Young! Young!
An elderly female, no more young, left the building of the courts of An elderly female, no more young, left the building of the courts of
chancery, king's bench, exchequer and common pleas, having heard in the chancery, king's bench, exchequer and common pleas, having heard in the
lord chancellor's court the case in lunacy of Potterton, in the admiralty lord chancellor's court the case in lunacy of Potterton, in the admiralty
division the summons, exparte motion, of the owners of the Lady Cairns division the summons, exparte motion, of the owners of the Lady Cairns
versus the owners of the barque Mona, in the court of appeal reservation versus the owners of the barque Mona, in the court of appeal reservation
of judgment in the case of Harvey versus the Ocean Accident and Guarantee of judgment in the case of Harvey versus the Ocean Accident and Guarantee
Corporation. Corporation.
Phlegmy coughs shook the air of the bookshop, bulging out the dingy Phlegmy coughs shook the air of the bookshop, bulging out the dingy
curtains. The shopman's uncombed grey head came out and his unshaven curtains. The shopman's uncombed grey head came out and his unshaven
reddened face, coughing. He raked his throat rudely, puked phlegm on the reddened face, coughing. He raked his throat rudely, puked phlegm on the
floor. He put his boot on what he had spat, wiping his sole along it, and floor. He put his boot on what he had spat, wiping his sole along it, and
bent, showing a rawskinned crown, scantily haired. bent, showing a rawskinned crown, scantily haired.
Mr Bloom beheld it. Mr Bloom beheld it.
Mastering his troubled breath, he said: Mastering his troubled breath, he said:
--I'll take this one. --I'll take this one.
The shopman lifted eyes bleared with old rheum. The shopman lifted eyes bleared with old rheum.
--SWEETS OF SIN, he said, tapping on it. That's a good one. --SWEETS OF SIN, he said, tapping on it. That's a good one.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
The lacquey by the door of Dillon's auctionrooms shook his handbell The lacquey by the door of Dillon's auctionrooms shook his handbell
twice again and viewed himself in the chalked mirror of the cabinet. twice again and viewed himself in the chalked mirror of the cabinet.
Dilly Dedalus, loitering by the curbstone, heard the beats of the bell, Dilly Dedalus, loitering by the curbstone, heard the beats of the bell,
the cries of the auctioneer within. Four and nine. Those lovely curtains. the cries of the auctioneer within. Four and nine. Those lovely curtains.
Five shillings. Cosy curtains. Selling new at two guineas. Any advance on Five shillings. Cosy curtains. Selling new at two guineas. Any advance on
five shillings? Going for five shillings. five shillings? Going for five shillings.
The lacquey lifted his handbell and shook it: The lacquey lifted his handbell and shook it:
--Barang! --Barang!
Bang of the lastlap bell spurred the halfmile wheelmen to their sprint. Bang of the lastlap bell spurred the halfmile wheelmen to their sprint.
J. A. Jackson, W. E. Wylie, A. Munro and H. T. Gahan, their stretched J. A. Jackson, W. E. Wylie, A. Munro and H. T. Gahan, their stretched
necks wagging, negotiated the curve by the College library. necks wagging, negotiated the curve by the College library.
along James's street. along James's street.
--I know you did, Dilly answered. Were you in the Scotch house now? --I know you did, Dilly answered. Were you in the Scotch house now?
--I was not, then, Mr Dedalus said, smiling. Was it the little nuns --I was not, then, Mr Dedalus said, smiling. Was it the little nuns
taught you to be so saucy? Here. taught you to be so saucy? Here.
He handed her a shilling. He handed her a shilling.
--See if you can do anything with that, he said. --See if you can do anything with that, he said.
--I suppose you got five, Dilly said. Give me more than that. --I suppose you got five, Dilly said. Give me more than that.
--Wait awhile, Mr Dedalus said threateningly. You're like the rest of --Wait awhile, Mr Dedalus said threateningly. You're like the rest of
them, are you? An insolent pack of little bitches since your poor mother them, are you? An insolent pack of little bitches since your poor mother
died. But wait awhile. You'll all get a short shrift and a long day from died. But wait awhile. You'll all get a short shrift and a long day from
me. Low blackguardism! I'm going to get rid of you. Wouldn't care if I me. Low blackguardism! I'm going to get rid of you. Wouldn't care if I
was stretched out stiff. He's dead. The man upstairs is dead. was stretched out stiff. He's dead. The man upstairs is dead.
He left her and walked on. Dilly followed quickly and pulled his coat. He left her and walked on. Dilly followed quickly and pulled his coat.
--Well, what is it? he said, stopping. --Well, what is it? he said, stopping.
The lacquey rang his bell behind their backs. The lacquey rang his bell behind their backs.
--Barang! --Barang!
--Curse your bloody blatant soul, Mr Dedalus cried, turning on him. --Curse your bloody blatant soul, Mr Dedalus cried, turning on him.
The lacquey, aware of comment, shook the lolling clapper of his bell The lacquey, aware of comment, shook the lolling clapper of his bell
but feebly: but feebly:
--Bang! --Bang!
Mr Dedalus stared at him. Mr Dedalus stared at him.
--Watch him, he said. It's instructive. I wonder will he allow us to talk. --Watch him, he said. It's instructive. I wonder will he allow us to talk.
--You got more than that, father, Dilly said. --You got more than that, father, Dilly said.
--I'm going to show you a little trick, Mr Dedalus said. I'll leave you --I'm going to show you a little trick, Mr Dedalus said. I'll leave you
all where Jesus left the jews. Look, there's all I have. I got two all where Jesus left the jews. Look, there's all I have. I got two
shillings from Jack Power and I spent twopence for a shave for the shillings from Jack Power and I spent twopence for a shave for the
funeral. funeral.
He drew forth a handful of copper coins, nervously. He drew forth a handful of copper coins, nervously.
--Can't you look for some money somewhere? Dilly said. --Can't you look for some money somewhere? Dilly said.
Mr Dedalus thought and nodded. Mr Dedalus thought and nodded.
--I will, he said gravely. I looked all along the gutter in O'Connell --I will, he said gravely. I looked all along the gutter in O'Connell
street. I'll try this one now. street. I'll try this one now.
--You're very funny, Dilly said, grinning. --You're very funny, Dilly said, grinning.
--Here, Mr Dedalus said, handing her two pennies. Get a glass of milk for --Here, Mr Dedalus said, handing her two pennies. Get a glass of milk for
yourself and a bun or a something. I'll be home shortly. yourself and a bun or a something. I'll be home shortly.
He put the other coins in his pocket and started to walk on. He put the other coins in his pocket and started to walk on.
The viceregal cavalcade passed, greeted by obsequious policemen, out The viceregal cavalcade passed, greeted by obsequious policemen, out
of Parkgate. of Parkgate.
fact. fact.
Graft, my dear sir. Well, of course, where there's money going there's Graft, my dear sir. Well, of course, where there's money going there's
always someone to pick it up. always someone to pick it up.
Saw him looking at my frockcoat. Dress does it. Nothing like a dressy Saw him looking at my frockcoat. Dress does it. Nothing like a dressy
appearance. Bowls them over. appearance. Bowls them over.
--Hello, Simon, Father Cowley said. How are things? --Hello, Simon, Father Cowley said. How are things?
--Hello, Bob, old man, Mr Dedalus answered, stopping. --Hello, Bob, old man, Mr Dedalus answered, stopping.
Mr Kernan halted and preened himself before the sloping mirror of Peter Mr Kernan halted and preened himself before the sloping mirror of Peter
Kennedy, hairdresser. Stylish coat, beyond a doubt. Scott of Dawson Kennedy, hairdresser. Stylish coat, beyond a doubt. Scott of Dawson
street. Well worth the half sovereign I gave Neary for it. Never built street. Well worth the half sovereign I gave Neary for it. Never built
under three guineas. Fits me down to the ground. Some Kildare street club under three guineas. Fits me down to the ground. Some Kildare street club
toff had it probably. John Mulligan, the manager of the Hibernian bank, toff had it probably. John Mulligan, the manager of the Hibernian bank,
gave me a very sharp eye yesterday on Carlisle bridge as if he remembered gave me a very sharp eye yesterday on Carlisle bridge as if he remembered
me. me.
Aham! Must dress the character for those fellows. Knight of the road. Aham! Must dress the character for those fellows. Knight of the road.
Gentleman. And now, Mr Crimmins, may we have the honour of your custom Gentleman. And now, Mr Crimmins, may we have the honour of your custom
again, sir. The cup that cheers but not inebriates, as the old saying has again, sir. The cup that cheers but not inebriates, as the old saying has
it. it.
North wall and sir John Rogerson's quay, with hulls and anchorchains, North wall and sir John Rogerson's quay, with hulls and anchorchains,
sailing westward, sailed by a skiff, a crumpled throwaway, rocked on the sailing westward, sailed by a skiff, a crumpled throwaway, rocked on the
ferrywash, Elijah is coming. ferrywash, Elijah is coming.
Mr Kernan glanced in farewell at his image. High colour, of course. Mr Kernan glanced in farewell at his image. High colour, of course.
Grizzled moustache. Returned Indian officer. Bravely he bore his stumpy Grizzled moustache. Returned Indian officer. Bravely he bore his stumpy
body forward on spatted feet, squaring his shoulders. Is that Ned body forward on spatted feet, squaring his shoulders. Is that Ned
Lambert's brother over the way, Sam? What? Yes. He's as like it as damn Lambert's brother over the way, Sam? What? Yes. He's as like it as damn
it. No. The windscreen of that motorcar in the sun there. Just a flash it. No. The windscreen of that motorcar in the sun there. Just a flash
like that. Damn like him. like that. Damn like him.
Aham! Hot spirit of juniper juice warmed his vitals and his breath. Good Aham! Hot spirit of juniper juice warmed his vitals and his breath. Good
drop of gin, that was. His frocktails winked in bright sunshine to his drop of gin, that was. His frocktails winked in bright sunshine to his
fat strut. fat strut.
Down there Emmet was hanged, drawn and quartered. Greasy black rope. Dogs Down there Emmet was hanged, drawn and quartered. Greasy black rope. Dogs
licking the blood off the street when the lord lieutenant's wife drove by licking the blood off the street when the lord lieutenant's wife drove by
in her noddy. in her noddy.
Bad times those were. Well, well. Over and done with. Great topers too. Bad times those were. Well, well. Over and done with. Great topers too.
Fourbottle men. Fourbottle men.
Let me see. Is he buried in saint Michan's? Or no, there was a midnight Let me see. Is he buried in saint Michan's? Or no, there was a midnight
burial in Glasnevin. Corpse brought in through a secret door in the wall. burial in Glasnevin. Corpse brought in through a secret door in the wall.
Dignam is there now. Went out in a puff. Well, well. Better turn down Dignam is there now. Went out in a puff. Well, well. Better turn down
here. Make a detour. here. Make a detour.
Mr Kernan turned and walked down the slope of Watling street by the Mr Kernan turned and walked down the slope of Watling street by the
corner of Guinness's visitors' waitingroom. Outside the Dublin Distillers corner of Guinness's visitors' waitingroom. Outside the Dublin Distillers
Company's stores an outside car without fare or jarvey stood, the reins Company's stores an outside car without fare or jarvey stood, the reins
knotted to the wheel. Damn dangerous thing. Some Tipperary bosthoon knotted to the wheel. Damn dangerous thing. Some Tipperary bosthoon
endangering the lives of the citizens. Runaway horse. endangering the lives of the citizens. Runaway horse.
Denis Breen with his tomes, weary of having waited an hour in John Henry Denis Breen with his tomes, weary of having waited an hour in John Henry
Menton's office, led his wife over O'Connell bridge, bound for the office Menton's office, led his wife over O'Connell bridge, bound for the office
of Messrs Collis and Ward. of Messrs Collis and Ward.
Mr Kernan approached Island street. Mr Kernan approached Island street.
Times of the troubles. Must ask Ned Lambert to lend me those Times of the troubles. Must ask Ned Lambert to lend me those
reminiscences of sir Jonah Barrington. When you look back on it all now reminiscences of sir Jonah Barrington. When you look back on it all now
in a kind of retrospective arrangement. Gaming at Daly's. No cardsharping in a kind of retrospective arrangement. Gaming at Daly's. No cardsharping
then. One of those fellows got his hand nailed to the table by a dagger. then. One of those fellows got his hand nailed to the table by a dagger.
Somewhere here lord Edward Fitzgerald escaped from major Sirr. Stables Somewhere here lord Edward Fitzgerald escaped from major Sirr. Stables
behind Moira house. behind Moira house.
Damn good gin that was. Damn good gin that was.
Fine dashing young nobleman. Good stock, of course. That ruffian, that Fine dashing young nobleman. Good stock, of course. That ruffian, that
sham squire, with his violet gloves gave him away. Course they were on sham squire, with his violet gloves gave him away. Course they were on
the wrong side. They rose in dark and evil days. Fine poem that is: the wrong side. They rose in dark and evil days. Fine poem that is:
Ingram. They were gentlemen. Ben Dollard does sing that ballad Ingram. They were gentlemen. Ben Dollard does sing that ballad
touchingly. Masterly rendition. touchingly. Masterly rendition.
    AT THE SIEGE OF ROSS DID MY FATHER FALL.     AT THE SIEGE OF ROSS DID MY FATHER FALL.
A cavalcade in easy trot along Pembroke quay passed, outriders leaping, A cavalcade in easy trot along Pembroke quay passed, outriders leaping,
leaping in their, in their saddles. Frockcoats. Cream sunshades. leaping in their, in their saddles. Frockcoats. Cream sunshades.
Mr Kernan hurried forward, blowing pursily. Mr Kernan hurried forward, blowing pursily.
His Excellency! Too bad! Just missed that by a hair. Damn it! What a His Excellency! Too bad! Just missed that by a hair. Damn it! What a
pity! pity!
    * * * * *     * * * * *
Stephen Dedalus watched through the webbed window the lapidary's fingers Stephen Dedalus watched through the webbed window the lapidary's fingers
prove a timedulled chain. Dust webbed the window and the showtrays. Dust prove a timedulled chain. Dust webbed the window and the showtrays. Dust
darkened the toiling fingers with their vulture nails. Dust slept on dull darkened the toiling fingers with their vulture nails. Dust slept on dull
coils of bronze and silver, lozenges of cinnabar, on rubies, leprous and coils of bronze and silver, lozenges of cinnabar, on rubies, leprous and
winedark stones. winedark stones.
Born all in the dark wormy earth, cold specks of fire, evil, lights Born all in the dark wormy earth, cold specks of fire, evil, lights
shining in the darkness. Where fallen archangels flung the stars of their shining in the darkness. Where fallen archangels flung the stars of their
brows. Muddy swinesnouts, hands, root and root, gripe and wrest them. brows. Muddy swinesnouts, hands, root and root, gripe and wrest them.
She dances in a foul gloom where gum bums with garlic. A sailorman, She dances in a foul gloom where gum bums with garlic. A sailorman,
rustbearded, sips from a beaker rum and eyes her. A long and seafed rustbearded, sips from a beaker rum and eyes her. A long and seafed
silent rut. She dances, capers, wagging her sowish haunches and her hips, silent rut. She dances, capers, wagging her sowish haunches and her hips,
on her gross belly flapping a ruby egg. on her gross belly flapping a ruby egg.
Old Russell with a smeared shammy rag burnished again his gem, turned it Old Russell with a smeared shammy rag burnished again his gem, turned it
and held it at the point of his Moses' beard. Grandfather ape gloating on and held it at the point of his Moses' beard. Grandfather ape gloating on
a stolen hoard. a stolen hoard.
And you who wrest old images from the burial earth? The brainsick words And you who wrest old images from the burial earth? The brainsick words
of sophists: Antisthenes. A lore of drugs. Orient and immortal wheat of sophists: Antisthenes. A lore of drugs. Orient and immortal wheat
standing from everlasting to everlasting. standing from everlasting to everlasting.
Two old women fresh from their whiff of the briny trudged through Two old women fresh from their whiff of the briny trudged through
Irishtown along London bridge road, one with a sanded tired umbrella, one Irishtown along London bridge road, one with a sanded tired umbrella, one
with a midwife's bag in which eleven cockles rolled. with a midwife's bag in which eleven cockles rolled.
The whirr of flapping leathern bands and hum of dynamos from the The whirr of flapping leathern bands and hum of dynamos from the
powerhouse urged Stephen to be on. Beingless beings. Stop! Throb always powerhouse urged Stephen to be on. Beingless beings. Stop! Throb always
without you and the throb always within. Your heart you sing of. I without you and the throb always within. Your heart you sing of. I
between them. Where? Between two roaring worlds where they swirl, I. between them. Where? Between two roaring worlds where they swirl, I.
Shatter them, one and both. But stun myself too in the blow. Shatter me Shatter them, one and both. But stun myself too in the blow. Shatter me
you who can. Bawd and butcher were the words. I say! Not yet awhile. A you who can. Bawd and butcher were the words. I say! Not yet awhile. A
look around. look around.
Yes, quite true. Very large and wonderful and keeps famous time. You say Yes, quite true. Very large and wonderful and keeps famous time. You say
right, sir. A Monday morning, 'twas so, indeed. right, sir. A Monday morning, 'twas so, indeed.
Stephen went down Bedford row, the handle of the ash clacking against his Stephen went down Bedford row, the handle of the ash clacking against his
shoulderblade. In Clohissey's window a faded 1860 print of Heenan boxing shoulderblade. In Clohissey's window a faded 1860 print of Heenan boxing
Sayers held his eye. Staring backers with square hats stood round the Sayers held his eye. Staring backers with square hats stood round the
roped prizering. The heavyweights in tight loincloths proposed gently roped prizering. The heavyweights in tight loincloths proposed gently
each to other his bulbous fists. And they are throbbing: heroes' hearts. each to other his bulbous fists. And they are throbbing: heroes' hearts.
He turned and halted by the slanted bookcart. He turned and halted by the slanted bookcart.
--Twopence each, the huckster said. Four for sixpence. --Twopence each, the huckster said. Four for sixpence.
Tattered pages. THE IRISH BEEKEEPER. LIFE AND MIRACLES OF THE CURE' OF Tattered pages. THE IRISH BEEKEEPER. LIFE AND MIRACLES OF THE CURE' OF
ARS. POCKET GUIDE TO KILLARNEY. ARS. POCKET GUIDE TO KILLARNEY.
I might find here one of my pawned schoolprizes. STEPHANO DEDALO, ALUMNO I might find here one of my pawned schoolprizes. STEPHANO DEDALO, ALUMNO
OPTIMO, PALMAM FERENTI. OPTIMO, PALMAM FERENTI.
Father Conmee, having read his little hours, walked through the hamlet of Father Conmee, having read his little hours, walked through the hamlet of
Donnycarney, murmuring vespers. Donnycarney, murmuring vespers.
Binding too good probably. What is this? Eighth and ninth book of Moses. Binding too good probably. What is this? Eighth and ninth book of Moses.
Secret of all secrets. Seal of King David. Thumbed pages: read and read. Secret of all secrets. Seal of King David. Thumbed pages: read and read.
Who has passed here before me? How to soften chapped hands. Recipe for Who has passed here before me? How to soften chapped hands. Recipe for
white wine vinegar. How to win a woman's love. For me this. Say the white wine vinegar. How to win a woman's love. For me this. Say the
following talisman three times with hands folded: following talisman three times with hands folded:
--SE EL YILO NEBRAKADA FEMININUM! AMOR ME SOLO! SANKTUS! AMEN. --SE EL YILO NEBRAKADA FEMININUM! AMOR ME SOLO! SANKTUS! AMEN.
Who wrote this? Charms and invocations of the most blessed abbot Peter Who wrote this? Charms and invocations of the most blessed abbot Peter
Salanka to all true believers divulged. As good as any other abbot's Salanka to all true believers divulged. As good as any other abbot's
charms, as mumbling Joachim's. Down, baldynoddle, or we'll wool your charms, as mumbling Joachim's. Down, baldynoddle, or we'll wool your
wool. wool.
--What are you doing here, Stephen? --What are you doing here, Stephen?
Dilly's high shoulders and shabby dress. Dilly's high shoulders and shabby dress.
Shut the book quick. Don't let see. Shut the book quick. Don't let see.
--What are you doing? Stephen said. --What are you doing? Stephen said.
A Stuart face of nonesuch Charles, lank locks falling at its sides. It A Stuart face of nonesuch Charles, lank locks falling at its sides. It
glowed as she crouched feeding the fire with broken boots. I told her of glowed as she crouched feeding the fire with broken boots. I told her of
Paris. Late lieabed under a quilt of old overcoats, fingering a pinchbeck Paris. Late lieabed under a quilt of old overcoats, fingering a pinchbeck
bracelet, Dan Kelly's token. NEBRAKADA FEMININUM. bracelet, Dan Kelly's token. NEBRAKADA FEMININUM.
--What have you there? Stephen asked. --What have you there? Stephen asked.
--I bought it from the other cart for a penny, Dilly said, laughing --I bought it from the other cart for a penny, Dilly said, laughing
nervously. Is it any good? nervously. Is it any good?
My eyes they say she has. Do others see me so? Quick, far and daring. My eyes they say she has. Do others see me so? Quick, far and daring.
ordered 2 teas and plain bread and butter I saw him looking with his two ordered 2 teas and plain bread and butter I saw him looking with his two
old maids of sisters when I stood up and asked the girl where it was what old maids of sisters when I stood up and asked the girl where it was what
do I care with it dropping out of me and that black closed breeches he do I care with it dropping out of me and that black closed breeches he
made me buy takes you half an hour to let them down wetting all myself made me buy takes you half an hour to let them down wetting all myself
always with some brandnew fad every other week such a long one I did I always with some brandnew fad every other week such a long one I did I
forgot my suede gloves on the seat behind that I never got after some forgot my suede gloves on the seat behind that I never got after some
robber of a woman and he wanted me to put it in the Irish times lost in robber of a woman and he wanted me to put it in the Irish times lost in
the ladies lavatory D B C Dame street finder return to Mrs Marion Bloom the ladies lavatory D B C Dame street finder return to Mrs Marion Bloom
and I saw his eyes on my feet going out through the turning door he was and I saw his eyes on my feet going out through the turning door he was
looking when I looked back and I went there for tea 2 days after in the looking when I looked back and I went there for tea 2 days after in the
hope but he wasnt now how did that excite him because I was crossing them hope but he wasnt now how did that excite him because I was crossing them
when we were in the other room first he meant the shoes that are too when we were in the other room first he meant the shoes that are too
tight to walk in my hand is nice like that if I only had a ring with the tight to walk in my hand is nice like that if I only had a ring with the
stone for my month a nice aquamarine Ill stick him for one and a gold stone for my month a nice aquamarine Ill stick him for one and a gold
bracelet I dont like my foot so much still I made him spend once with my bracelet I dont like my foot so much still I made him spend once with my
foot the night after Goodwins botchup of a concert so cold and windy it foot the night after Goodwins botchup of a concert so cold and windy it
was well we had that rum in the house to mull and the fire wasnt black was well we had that rum in the house to mull and the fire wasnt black
out when he asked to take off my stockings lying on the hearthrug in out when he asked to take off my stockings lying on the hearthrug in
Lombard street west and another time it was my muddy boots hed like me to Lombard street west and another time it was my muddy boots hed like me to
walk in all the horses dung I could find but of course hes not natural walk in all the horses dung I could find but of course hes not natural
like the rest of the world that I what did he say I could give 9 points like the rest of the world that I what did he say I could give 9 points
in 10 to Katty Lanner and beat her what does that mean I asked him I in 10 to Katty Lanner and beat her what does that mean I asked him I
forget what he said because the stoppress edition just passed and the man forget what he said because the stoppress edition just passed and the man
with the curly hair in the Lucan dairy thats so polite I think I saw his with the curly hair in the Lucan dairy thats so polite I think I saw his
face before somewhere I noticed him when I was tasting the butter so I face before somewhere I noticed him when I was tasting the butter so I
took my time Bartell dArcy too that he used to make fun of when he took my time Bartell dArcy too that he used to make fun of when he
commenced kissing me on the choir stairs after I sang Gounods AVE MARIA commenced kissing me on the choir stairs after I sang Gounods AVE MARIA
what are we waiting for O my heart kiss me straight on the brow and part what are we waiting for O my heart kiss me straight on the brow and part
which is my brown part he was pretty hot for all his tinny voice too my which is my brown part he was pretty hot for all his tinny voice too my
low notes he was always raving about if you can believe him I liked the low notes he was always raving about if you can believe him I liked the
way he used his mouth singing then he said wasnt it terrible to do that way he used his mouth singing then he said wasnt it terrible to do that
doing a good turn for someone. Hold hard! doing a good turn for someone. Hold hard!
He put on his glasses and gazed towards the metal bridge an instant. He put on his glasses and gazed towards the metal bridge an instant.
--There he is, by God, he said, arse and pockets. --There he is, by God, he said, arse and pockets.
Ben Dollard's loose blue cutaway and square hat above large slops crossed Ben Dollard's loose blue cutaway and square hat above large slops crossed
the quay in full gait from the metal bridge. He came towards them at an the quay in full gait from the metal bridge. He came towards them at an
amble, scratching actively behind his coattails. amble, scratching actively behind his coattails.
As he came near Mr Dedalus greeted: As he came near Mr Dedalus greeted:
--Hold that fellow with the bad trousers. --Hold that fellow with the bad trousers.
--Hold him now, Ben Dollard said. --Hold him now, Ben Dollard said.
Mr Dedalus eyed with cold wandering scorn various points of Ben Dollard's Mr Dedalus eyed with cold wandering scorn various points of Ben Dollard's
figure. Then, turning to Father Cowley with a nod, he muttered figure. Then, turning to Father Cowley with a nod, he muttered
sneeringly: sneeringly:
--That's a pretty garment, isn't it, for a summer's day? --That's a pretty garment, isn't it, for a summer's day?
--Why, God eternally curse your soul, Ben Dollard growled furiously, I --Why, God eternally curse your soul, Ben Dollard growled furiously, I
threw out more clothes in my time than you ever saw. threw out more clothes in my time than you ever saw.
He stood beside them beaming, on them first and on his roomy clothes from He stood beside them beaming, on them first and on his roomy clothes from
points of which Mr Dedalus flicked fluff, saying: points of which Mr Dedalus flicked fluff, saying:
--They were made for a man in his health, Ben, anyhow. --They were made for a man in his health, Ben, anyhow.
--Bad luck to the jewman that made them, Ben Dollard said. Thanks be to --Bad luck to the jewman that made them, Ben Dollard said. Thanks be to
God he's not paid yet. God he's not paid yet.
--And how is that BASSO PROFONDO, Benjamin? Father Cowley asked. --And how is that BASSO PROFONDO, Benjamin? Father Cowley asked.
Cashel Boyle O'Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell, murmuring, glassyeyed, Cashel Boyle O'Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell, murmuring, glassyeyed,
strode past the Kildare street club. strode past the Kildare street club.
Ben Dollard frowned and, making suddenly a chanter's mouth, gave forth a Ben Dollard frowned and, making suddenly a chanter's mouth, gave forth a
deep note. deep note.
--Aw! he said. --Aw! he said.
--That's the style, Mr Dedalus said, nodding to its drone. --That's the style, Mr Dedalus said, nodding to its drone.
--What about that? Ben Dollard said. Not too dusty? What? --What about that? Ben Dollard said. Not too dusty? What?
He turned to both. He turned to both.
--That'll do, Father Cowley said, nodding also. --That'll do, Father Cowley said, nodding also.
The reverend Hugh C. Love walked from the old chapterhouse of saint The reverend Hugh C. Love walked from the old chapterhouse of saint
Mary's abbey past James and Charles Kennedy's, rectifiers, attended by Mary's abbey past James and Charles Kennedy's, rectifiers, attended by
Geraldines tall and personable, towards the Tholsel beyond the ford of Geraldines tall and personable, towards the Tholsel beyond the ford of
hurdles. hurdles.
Ben Dollard with a heavy list towards the shopfronts led them forward, Ben Dollard with a heavy list towards the shopfronts led them forward,
his joyful fingers in the air. his joyful fingers in the air.
--Come along with me to the subsheriff's office, he said. I want to show --Come along with me to the subsheriff's office, he said. I want to show
you the new beauty Rock has for a bailiff. He's a cross between Lobengula you the new beauty Rock has for a bailiff. He's a cross between Lobengula
and Lynchehaun. He's well worth seeing, mind you. Come along. I saw John and Lynchehaun. He's well worth seeing, mind you. Come along. I saw John
Henry Menton casually in the Bodega just now and it will cost me a fall Henry Menton casually in the Bodega just now and it will cost me a fall
if I don't ... Wait awhile ... We're on the right lay, Bob, believe you if I don't ... Wait awhile ... We're on the right lay, Bob, believe you
me. me.
--For a few days tell him, Father Cowley said anxiously. --For a few days tell him, Father Cowley said anxiously.
Ben Dollard halted and stared, his loud orifice open, a dangling button Ben Dollard halted and stared, his loud orifice open, a dangling button
of his coat wagging brightbacked from its thread as he wiped away the of his coat wagging brightbacked from its thread as he wiped away the
heavy shraums that clogged his eyes to hear aright. heavy shraums that clogged his eyes to hear aright.
--What few days? he boomed. Hasn't your landlord distrained for rent? --What few days? he boomed. Hasn't your landlord distrained for rent?
--He has, Father Cowley said. --He has, Father Cowley said.
--Then our friend's writ is not worth the paper it's printed on, Ben --Then our friend's writ is not worth the paper it's printed on, Ben
Dollard said. The landlord has the prior claim. I gave him all the Dollard said. The landlord has the prior claim. I gave him all the
particulars. 29 Windsor avenue. Love is the name? particulars. 29 Windsor avenue. Love is the name?
--That's right, Father Cowley said. The reverend Mr Love. He's a minister --That's right, Father Cowley said. The reverend Mr Love. He's a minister
in the country somewhere. But are you sure of that? in the country somewhere. But are you sure of that?
--You can tell Barabbas from me, Ben Dollard said, that he can put that --You can tell Barabbas from me, Ben Dollard said, that he can put that
writ where Jacko put the nuts. writ where Jacko put the nuts.
He led Father Cowley boldly forward, linked to his bulk. He led Father Cowley boldly forward, linked to his bulk.
--Filberts I believe they were, Mr Dedalus said, as he dropped his --Filberts I believe they were, Mr Dedalus said, as he dropped his
glasses on his coatfront, following them. glasses on his coatfront, following them.
    * * * * *     * * * * *
--The youngster will be all right, Martin Cunningham said, as they passed --The youngster will be all right, Martin Cunningham said, as they passed
out of the Castleyard gate. out of the Castleyard gate.
The policeman touched his forehead. The policeman touched his forehead.
--God bless you, Martin Cunningham said, cheerily. --God bless you, Martin Cunningham said, cheerily.
