Rachael: He wouldn't see me.Rachael: He wouldn't see me.Rachael: He wouldn't see me.Rachael: He wouldn't see me.Rachael: He wouldn't see me.
Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?
Rachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's meRachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's meRachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's meRachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's meRachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's me
with my mother.with my mother.with my mother.with my mother.with my mother.
Deckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and yourDeckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and yourDeckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and yourDeckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and yourDeckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and your
brother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--youbrother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--youbrother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--youbrother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--youbrother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--you
were gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be yourwere gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be yourwere gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be yourwere gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be yourwere gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be your
turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?
Your mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in aYour mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in aYour mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in aYour mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in aYour mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in a
bush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build abush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build abush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build abush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build abush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build a
web all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The eggweb all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The eggweb all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The eggweb all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The eggweb all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The egg
hatched--hatched--hatched--hatched--hatched--
Rachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. AndRachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. AndRachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. AndRachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. AndRachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. And
they ate her.they ate her.they ate her.they ate her.they ate her.
Deckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebodyDeckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebodyDeckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebodyDeckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebodyDeckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebody
else's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a badelse's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a badelse's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a badelse's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a badelse's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a bad
joke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Gojoke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Gojoke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Gojoke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Gojoke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Go
home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.
[Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.][Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.][Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.][Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.][Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.]
Deckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right downDeckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right downDeckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right downDeckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right downDeckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right down
to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.
Replicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were bladeReplicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were bladeReplicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were bladeReplicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were bladeReplicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were blade
Your mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in aYour mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in aYour mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in aYour mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in aYour mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in a
bush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build abush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build abush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build abush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build abush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build a
web all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The eggweb all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The eggweb all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The eggweb all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The eggweb all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The egg
hatched--hatched--hatched--hatched--hatched--
Rachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. AndRachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. AndRachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. AndRachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. AndRachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. And
they ate her.they ate her.they ate her.they ate her.they ate her.
[Deckard, on balcony.][Deckard, on balcony.][Deckard, on balcony.][Deckard, on balcony.][Deckard, on balcony.]
[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers
herself in trash pile.]herself in trash pile.]herself in trash pile.]herself in trash pile.]herself in trash pile.]
Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...
Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.
Pris: I'm lost.Pris: I'm lost.Pris: I'm lost.Pris: I'm lost.Pris: I'm lost.
Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?
Pris: Pris.Pris: Pris.Pris: Pris.Pris: Pris.Pris: Pris.
Sebastian: Mine's J. F. Sebastian.Sebastian: Mine's J. F. Sebastian.Sebastian: Mine's J. F. Sebastian.Sebastian: Mine's J. F. Sebastian.Sebastian: Mine's J. F. Sebastian.
Pris: Hi.Pris: Hi.Pris: Hi.Pris: Hi.Pris: Hi.
Sebastian: Hi. Oh, where were you going? Home?Sebastian: Hi. Oh, where were you going? Home?Sebastian: Hi. Oh, where were you going? Home?Sebastian: Hi. Oh, where were you going? Home?Sebastian: Hi. Oh, where were you going? Home?
Pris: I don't have one. We scared each other pretty good, didn't we?Pris: I don't have one. We scared each other pretty good, didn't we?Pris: I don't have one. We scared each other pretty good, didn't we?Pris: I don't have one. We scared each other pretty good, didn't we?Pris: I don't have one. We scared each other pretty good, didn't we?
Sebastian: We sure did.Sebastian: We sure did.Sebastian: We sure did.Sebastian: We sure did.Sebastian: We sure did.
Pris: I'm hungry J. F.Pris: I'm hungry J. F.Pris: I'm hungry J. F.Pris: I'm hungry J. F.Pris: I'm hungry J. F.
Sebastian: I've got some stuff inside. You want to come in?Sebastian: I've got some stuff inside. You want to come in?Sebastian: I've got some stuff inside. You want to come in?Sebastian: I've got some stuff inside. You want to come in?Sebastian: I've got some stuff inside. You want to come in?
Pris: I was hoping you'd say that.Pris: I was hoping you'd say that.Pris: I was hoping you'd say that.Pris: I was hoping you'd say that.Pris: I was hoping you'd say that.
[Pris and Sebastian enter building.][Pris and Sebastian enter building.][Pris and Sebastian enter building.][Pris and Sebastian enter building.][Pris and Sebastian enter building.]
Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?
Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?
[Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building][Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building][Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building][Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building][Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building]
Deckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full ofDeckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full ofDeckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full ofDeckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full ofDeckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full of
killing. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that'skilling. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that'skilling. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that'skilling. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that'skilling. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that's
exactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked inexactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked inexactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked inexactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked inexactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked in
once more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. Ionce more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. Ionce more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. Ionce more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. Ionce more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. I
didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,
so he didn't want me back anyway.so he didn't want me back anyway.so he didn't want me back anyway.so he didn't want me back anyway.so he didn't want me back anyway.
[inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian][inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian][inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian][inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian][inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian]
Rachael: Do you like our owl?Rachael: Do you like our owl?Rachael: Do you like our owl?Rachael: Do you like our owl?Rachael: Do you like our owl?
Deckard: It's artificial?Deckard: It's artificial?Deckard: It's artificial?Deckard: It's artificial?Deckard: It's artificial?
Rachael: Of course it is.Rachael: Of course it is.Rachael: Of course it is.Rachael: Of course it is.Rachael: Of course it is.
Deckard: Must be expensive.Deckard: Must be expensive.Deckard: Must be expensive.Deckard: Must be expensive.Deckard: Must be expensive.
Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.
Deckard: Deckard.Deckard: Deckard.Deckard: Deckard.Deckard: Deckard.Deckard: Deckard.
Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.
Deckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either aDeckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either aDeckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either aDeckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either aDeckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either a
benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.
Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?
Deckard: Sure.Deckard: Sure.Deckard: Sure.Deckard: Sure.Deckard: Sure.
Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?
Deckard: No.Deckard: No.Deckard: No.Deckard: No.Deckard: No.
Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?
Tyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of theTyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of theTyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of theTyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of theTyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of the
so-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntaryso-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntaryso-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntaryso-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntaryso-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntary
dilation of the iris?dilation of the iris?dilation of the iris?dilation of the iris?dilation of the iris?
Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.
Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.
Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.
Deckard: Where's the subject?Deckard: Where's the subject?Deckard: Where's the subject?Deckard: Where's the subject?Deckard: Where's the subject?
Tyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negativeTyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negativeTyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negativeTyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negativeTyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negative
before I provide you with a positive.before I provide you with a positive.before I provide you with a positive.before I provide you with a positive.before I provide you with a positive.
Deckard: What's that going to prove?Deckard: What's that going to prove?Deckard: What's that going to prove?Deckard: What's that going to prove?Deckard: What's that going to prove?
Tyrell: Indulge me.Tyrell: Indulge me.Tyrell: Indulge me.Tyrell: Indulge me.Tyrell: Indulge me.
Deckard: On you?Deckard: On you?Deckard: On you?Deckard: On you?Deckard: On you?
Tyrell: Try her.Tyrell: Try her.Tyrell: Try her.Tyrell: Try her.Tyrell: Try her.
Deckard: It's too bright in here.Deckard: It's too bright in here.Deckard: It's too bright in here.Deckard: It's too bright in here.Deckard: It's too bright in here.
Leon: Care if I talk? I'm kind of nervous when I take tests.Leon: Care if I talk? I'm kind of nervous when I take tests.Leon: Care if I talk? I'm kind of nervous when I take tests.Leon: Care if I talk? I'm kind of nervous when I take tests.Leon: Care if I talk? I'm kind of nervous when I take tests.
Holden: Uh, just please don't move.Holden: Uh, just please don't move.Holden: Uh, just please don't move.Holden: Uh, just please don't move.Holden: Uh, just please don't move.
Leon: Oh, sorry. I already had an IQ test this year, I don't thinkLeon: Oh, sorry. I already had an IQ test this year, I don't thinkLeon: Oh, sorry. I already had an IQ test this year, I don't thinkLeon: Oh, sorry. I already had an IQ test this year, I don't thinkLeon: Oh, sorry. I already had an IQ test this year, I don't think
I've ever had one of these-I've ever had one of these-I've ever had one of these-I've ever had one of these-I've ever had one of these-
Holden: Reaction time is a factor in this, so please pay attention.Holden: Reaction time is a factor in this, so please pay attention.Holden: Reaction time is a factor in this, so please pay attention.Holden: Reaction time is a factor in this, so please pay attention.Holden: Reaction time is a factor in this, so please pay attention.
Now, answer as quickly as you can.Now, answer as quickly as you can.Now, answer as quickly as you can.Now, answer as quickly as you can.Now, answer as quickly as you can.
Leon: Sure.Leon: Sure.Leon: Sure.Leon: Sure.Leon: Sure.
Holden: One-one-eight-seven at Hunter-Vasser.Holden: One-one-eight-seven at Hunter-Vasser.Holden: One-one-eight-seven at Hunter-Vasser.Holden: One-one-eight-seven at Hunter-Vasser.Holden: One-one-eight-seven at Hunter-Vasser.
Leon: That's the hotel.Leon: That's the hotel.Leon: That's the hotel.Leon: That's the hotel.Leon: That's the hotel.
Holden: What?Holden: What?Holden: What?Holden: What?Holden: What?
Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--
Bryant: There was an escape from the off-world colonies two weeks ago.Bryant: There was an escape from the off-world colonies two weeks ago.Bryant: There was an escape from the off-world colonies two weeks ago.Bryant: There was an escape from the off-world colonies two weeks ago.Bryant: There was an escape from the off-world colonies two weeks ago.
Six replicants, three male, three female. They slaughteredSix replicants, three male, three female. They slaughteredSix replicants, three male, three female. They slaughteredSix replicants, three male, three female. They slaughteredSix replicants, three male, three female. They slaughtered
twenty-three people and jumped a shuttle. An aerial patrol spotted thetwenty-three people and jumped a shuttle. An aerial patrol spotted thetwenty-three people and jumped a shuttle. An aerial patrol spotted thetwenty-three people and jumped a shuttle. An aerial patrol spotted thetwenty-three people and jumped a shuttle. An aerial patrol spotted the
ship off the coast. No crew, no sight of them. Three nights ago theyship off the coast. No crew, no sight of them. Three nights ago theyship off the coast. No crew, no sight of them. Three nights ago theyship off the coast. No crew, no sight of them. Three nights ago theyship off the coast. No crew, no sight of them. Three nights ago they
tried to break into Tyrell Corporation. One of them got fried runningtried to break into Tyrell Corporation. One of them got fried runningtried to break into Tyrell Corporation. One of them got fried runningtried to break into Tyrell Corporation. One of them got fried runningtried to break into Tyrell Corporation. One of them got fried running
through an electrical field. We lost the others. On the possibilitythrough an electrical field. We lost the others. On the possibilitythrough an electrical field. We lost the others. On the possibilitythrough an electrical field. We lost the others. On the possibilitythrough an electrical field. We lost the others. On the possibility
they might try to infiltrate his employees, I had Holden go over andthey might try to infiltrate his employees, I had Holden go over andthey might try to infiltrate his employees, I had Holden go over andthey might try to infiltrate his employees, I had Holden go over andthey might try to infiltrate his employees, I had Holden go over and
run Voight-Kampff tests on the new workers. Looks like he got himselfrun Voight-Kampff tests on the new workers. Looks like he got himselfrun Voight-Kampff tests on the new workers. Looks like he got himselfrun Voight-Kampff tests on the new workers. Looks like he got himselfrun Voight-Kampff tests on the new workers. Looks like he got himself
one.one.one.one.one.
Holden (video): So you look down you see a tortoise. It's crawlingHolden (video): So you look down you see a tortoise. It's crawlingHolden (video): So you look down you see a tortoise. It's crawlingHolden (video): So you look down you see a tortoise. It's crawlingHolden (video): So you look down you see a tortoise. It's crawling
toward you.toward you.toward you.toward you.toward you.
Leon (video): Tortoise, what's that?Leon (video): Tortoise, what's that?Leon (video): Tortoise, what's that?Leon (video): Tortoise, what's that?Leon (video): Tortoise, what's that?
Holden (video): Know what a turtle is?Holden (video): Know what a turtle is?Holden (video): Know what a turtle is?Holden (video): Know what a turtle is?Holden (video): Know what a turtle is?
Leon (video): Of course.Leon (video): Of course.Leon (video): Of course.Leon (video): Of course.Leon (video): Of course.
Holden (video): Same thing.Holden (video): Same thing.Holden (video): Same thing.Holden (video): Same thing.Holden (video): Same thing.
Leon (video): I've never seen a turtle.Leon (video): I've never seen a turtle.Leon (video): I've never seen a turtle.Leon (video): I've never seen a turtle.Leon (video): I've never seen a turtle.
Deckard: I don't get it. What do they risk coming back to earth for?Deckard: I don't get it. What do they risk coming back to earth for?Deckard: I don't get it. What do they risk coming back to earth for?Deckard: I don't get it. What do they risk coming back to earth for?Deckard: I don't get it. What do they risk coming back to earth for?
That's unusual. Why--what do they want from the Tyrell Corporation?That's unusual. Why--what do they want from the Tyrell Corporation?That's unusual. Why--what do they want from the Tyrell Corporation?That's unusual. Why--what do they want from the Tyrell Corporation?That's unusual. Why--what do they want from the Tyrell Corporation?
Bryant: Well you tell me pal, that's what you're here for.Bryant: Well you tell me pal, that's what you're here for.Bryant: Well you tell me pal, that's what you're here for.Bryant: Well you tell me pal, that's what you're here for.Bryant: Well you tell me pal, that's what you're here for.
Deckard: [funny look]. [pause] What's this?Deckard: [funny look]. [pause] What's this?Deckard: [funny look]. [pause] What's this?Deckard: [funny look]. [pause] What's this?Deckard: [funny look]. [pause] What's this?
Bryant: Nexus 6. Roy Batty. Incept date 2016. Combat model. OptimumBryant: Nexus 6. Roy Batty. Incept date 2016. Combat model. OptimumBryant: Nexus 6. Roy Batty. Incept date 2016. Combat model. OptimumBryant: Nexus 6. Roy Batty. Incept date 2016. Combat model. OptimumBryant: Nexus 6. Roy Batty. Incept date 2016. Combat model. Optimum
self-sufficiency. Probably the leader. This is Zhora. She's trainedself-sufficiency. Probably the leader. This is Zhora. She's trainedself-sufficiency. Probably the leader. This is Zhora. She's trainedself-sufficiency. Probably the leader. This is Zhora. She's trainedself-sufficiency. Probably the leader. This is Zhora. She's trained
for an off-world kick-murder squad. Talk about beauty and the beast,for an off-world kick-murder squad. Talk about beauty and the beast,for an off-world kick-murder squad. Talk about beauty and the beast,for an off-world kick-murder squad. Talk about beauty and the beast,for an off-world kick-murder squad. Talk about beauty and the beast,
she's both. The fourth skin job is Pris. A basic pleasure model. Theshe's both. The fourth skin job is Pris. A basic pleasure model. Theshe's both. The fourth skin job is Pris. A basic pleasure model. Theshe's both. The fourth skin job is Pris. A basic pleasure model. Theshe's both. The fourth skin job is Pris. A basic pleasure model. The
standard item for military clubs in the outer colonies. They werestandard item for military clubs in the outer colonies. They werestandard item for military clubs in the outer colonies. They werestandard item for military clubs in the outer colonies. They werestandard item for military clubs in the outer colonies. They were
designed to copy human beings in every way except their emotions. Thedesigned to copy human beings in every way except their emotions. Thedesigned to copy human beings in every way except their emotions. Thedesigned to copy human beings in every way except their emotions. Thedesigned to copy human beings in every way except their emotions. The
designers reckoned that after a few years they might develop their owndesigners reckoned that after a few years they might develop their owndesigners reckoned that after a few years they might develop their owndesigners reckoned that after a few years they might develop their owndesigners reckoned that after a few years they might develop their own
emotional responses. You know, hate, love, fear, envy. So they builtemotional responses. You know, hate, love, fear, envy. So they builtemotional responses. You know, hate, love, fear, envy. So they builtemotional responses. You know, hate, love, fear, envy. So they builtemotional responses. You know, hate, love, fear, envy. So they built
in a fail-safe device.in a fail-safe device.in a fail-safe device.in a fail-safe device.in a fail-safe device.
Deckard: Which is what?Deckard: Which is what?Deckard: Which is what?Deckard: Which is what?Deckard: Which is what?
Bryant: Four year life span.Bryant: Four year life span.Bryant: Four year life span.Bryant: Four year life span.Bryant: Four year life span.
Bryant: Now there's a Nexus 6 over at the Tyrell Corporation. I wantBryant: Now there's a Nexus 6 over at the Tyrell Corporation. I wantBryant: Now there's a Nexus 6 over at the Tyrell Corporation. I wantBryant: Now there's a Nexus 6 over at the Tyrell Corporation. I wantBryant: Now there's a Nexus 6 over at the Tyrell Corporation. I want
you to go put the machine on it.you to go put the machine on it.you to go put the machine on it.you to go put the machine on it.you to go put the machine on it.
Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?
[Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building][Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building][Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building][Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building][Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building]
Deckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full ofDeckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full ofDeckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full ofDeckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full ofDeckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full of
killing. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that'skilling. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that'skilling. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that'skilling. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that'skilling. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that's
exactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked inexactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked inexactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked inexactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked inexactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked in
once more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. Ionce more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. Ionce more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. Ionce more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. Ionce more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. I
didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,
so he didn't want me back anyway.so he didn't want me back anyway.so he didn't want me back anyway.so he didn't want me back anyway.so he didn't want me back anyway.
[inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian][inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian][inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian][inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian][inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian]
Rachael: Do you like our owl?Rachael: Do you like our owl?Rachael: Do you like our owl?Rachael: Do you like our owl?Rachael: Do you like our owl?
Deckard: It's artificial?Deckard: It's artificial?Deckard: It's artificial?Deckard: It's artificial?Deckard: It's artificial?
Rachael: Of course it is.Rachael: Of course it is.Rachael: Of course it is.Rachael: Of course it is.Rachael: Of course it is.
Deckard: Must be expensive.Deckard: Must be expensive.Deckard: Must be expensive.Deckard: Must be expensive.Deckard: Must be expensive.
Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.
Deckard: Deckard.Deckard: Deckard.Deckard: Deckard.Deckard: Deckard.Deckard: Deckard.
Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.
Deckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either aDeckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either aDeckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either aDeckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either aDeckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either a
benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.
Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?
Deckard: Sure.Deckard: Sure.Deckard: Sure.Deckard: Sure.Deckard: Sure.
Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?
Deckard: No.Deckard: No.Deckard: No.Deckard: No.Deckard: No.
Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?
Tyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of theTyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of theTyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of theTyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of theTyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of the
so-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntaryso-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntaryso-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntaryso-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntaryso-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntary
dilation of the iris?dilation of the iris?dilation of the iris?dilation of the iris?dilation of the iris?
Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.
Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.
Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.
Deckard: Where's the subject?Deckard: Where's the subject?Deckard: Where's the subject?Deckard: Where's the subject?Deckard: Where's the subject?
Tyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negativeTyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negativeTyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negativeTyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negativeTyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negative
before I provide you with a positive.before I provide you with a positive.before I provide you with a positive.before I provide you with a positive.before I provide you with a positive.
Deckard: What's that going to prove?Deckard: What's that going to prove?Deckard: What's that going to prove?Deckard: What's that going to prove?Deckard: What's that going to prove?
Tyrell: Indulge me.Tyrell: Indulge me.Tyrell: Indulge me.Tyrell: Indulge me.Tyrell: Indulge me.
Deckard: On you?Deckard: On you?Deckard: On you?Deckard: On you?Deckard: On you?
Tyrell: Try her.Tyrell: Try her.Tyrell: Try her.Tyrell: Try her.Tyrell: Try her.
Deckard: It's too bright in here.Deckard: It's too bright in here.Deckard: It's too bright in here.Deckard: It's too bright in here.Deckard: It's too bright in here.
[the window changes shade, letting less light in][the window changes shade, letting less light in][the window changes shade, letting less light in][the window changes shade, letting less light in][the window changes shade, letting less light in]
Rachael: Do you mind if I smoke?Rachael: Do you mind if I smoke?Rachael: Do you mind if I smoke?Rachael: Do you mind if I smoke?Rachael: Do you mind if I smoke?
Deckard: It won't affect the test. Alright, I'm going to ask you aDeckard: It won't affect the test. Alright, I'm going to ask you aDeckard: It won't affect the test. Alright, I'm going to ask you aDeckard: It won't affect the test. Alright, I'm going to ask you aDeckard: It won't affect the test. Alright, I'm going to ask you a
series of questions. Just relax and answer them as simply as you can.series of questions. Just relax and answer them as simply as you can.series of questions. Just relax and answer them as simply as you can.series of questions. Just relax and answer them as simply as you can.series of questions. Just relax and answer them as simply as you can.
(pause) It's your birthday. Someone gives you a calfskin wallet.(pause) It's your birthday. Someone gives you a calfskin wallet.(pause) It's your birthday. Someone gives you a calfskin wallet.(pause) It's your birthday. Someone gives you a calfskin wallet.(pause) It's your birthday. Someone gives you a calfskin wallet.
Rachael: I wouldn't accept it. Also, I'd report the person who gave itRachael: I wouldn't accept it. Also, I'd report the person who gave itRachael: I wouldn't accept it. Also, I'd report the person who gave itRachael: I wouldn't accept it. Also, I'd report the person who gave itRachael: I wouldn't accept it. Also, I'd report the person who gave it
to me to the police.to me to the police.to me to the police.to me to the police.to me to the police.
Deckard: You've got a little boy. He shows you his butterflyDeckard: You've got a little boy. He shows you his butterflyDeckard: You've got a little boy. He shows you his butterflyDeckard: You've got a little boy. He shows you his butterflyDeckard: You've got a little boy. He shows you his butterfly
collection plus the killing jar.collection plus the killing jar.collection plus the killing jar.collection plus the killing jar.collection plus the killing jar.
Rachael: I take him to the doctor.Rachael: I take him to the doctor.Rachael: I take him to the doctor.Rachael: I take him to the doctor.Rachael: I take him to the doctor.
Deckard: You're watching television. Suddenly you realize there's aDeckard: You're watching television. Suddenly you realize there's aDeckard: You're watching television. Suddenly you realize there's aDeckard: You're watching television. Suddenly you realize there's aDeckard: You're watching television. Suddenly you realize there's a
wasp crawling on your arm.wasp crawling on your arm.wasp crawling on your arm.wasp crawling on your arm.wasp crawling on your arm.
Rachael: I'd kill it.Rachael: I'd kill it.Rachael: I'd kill it.Rachael: I'd kill it.Rachael: I'd kill it.
Deckard: You're reading a magazine. You come across a full-page nudeDeckard: You're reading a magazine. You come across a full-page nudeDeckard: You're reading a magazine. You come across a full-page nudeDeckard: You're reading a magazine. You come across a full-page nudeDeckard: You're reading a magazine. You come across a full-page nude
photo of a girl.photo of a girl.photo of a girl.photo of a girl.photo of a girl.
Rachael: Is this testing whether I'm a replicant or a lesbian, Mr.Rachael: Is this testing whether I'm a replicant or a lesbian, Mr.Rachael: Is this testing whether I'm a replicant or a lesbian, Mr.Rachael: Is this testing whether I'm a replicant or a lesbian, Mr.Rachael: Is this testing whether I'm a replicant or a lesbian, Mr.
Deckard?Deckard?Deckard?Deckard?Deckard?
Deckard: Just answer the questions, please. (pause) You show it toDeckard: Just answer the questions, please. (pause) You show it toDeckard: Just answer the questions, please. (pause) You show it toDeckard: Just answer the questions, please. (pause) You show it toDeckard: Just answer the questions, please. (pause) You show it to
your husband. He likes it so much he hangs it on your bedroom wall.your husband. He likes it so much he hangs it on your bedroom wall.your husband. He likes it so much he hangs it on your bedroom wall.your husband. He likes it so much he hangs it on your bedroom wall.your husband. He likes it so much he hangs it on your bedroom wall.
Deckard (background): bush outside your windowDeckard (background): bush outside your windowDeckard (background): bush outside your windowDeckard (background): bush outside your windowDeckard (background): bush outside your window
Rachael: I wouldn't let him.Rachael: I wouldn't let him.Rachael: I wouldn't let him.Rachael: I wouldn't let him.Rachael: I wouldn't let him.
Deckard (background): orange body, green legsDeckard (background): orange body, green legsDeckard (background): orange body, green legsDeckard (background): orange body, green legsDeckard (background): orange body, green legs
Deckard: Why not?Deckard: Why not?Deckard: Why not?Deckard: Why not?Deckard: Why not?
Rachael: I should be enough for him.Rachael: I should be enough for him.Rachael: I should be enough for him.Rachael: I should be enough for him.Rachael: I should be enough for him.
[audio fades out and in, time passes.][audio fades out and in, time passes.][audio fades out and in, time passes.][audio fades out and in, time passes.][audio fades out and in, time passes.]
Deckard: One more question. You're watching a stage play. A banquet isDeckard: One more question. You're watching a stage play. A banquet isDeckard: One more question. You're watching a stage play. A banquet isDeckard: One more question. You're watching a stage play. A banquet isDeckard: One more question. You're watching a stage play. A banquet is
in progress. The guests are enjoying an appetizer of raw oysters. Thein progress. The guests are enjoying an appetizer of raw oysters. Thein progress. The guests are enjoying an appetizer of raw oysters. Thein progress. The guests are enjoying an appetizer of raw oysters. Thein progress. The guests are enjoying an appetizer of raw oysters. The
entree consists of boiled dog.entree consists of boiled dog.entree consists of boiled dog.entree consists of boiled dog.entree consists of boiled dog.
Tyrell: Would you step out for a few moments, Rachael? (pause) ThankTyrell: Would you step out for a few moments, Rachael? (pause) ThankTyrell: Would you step out for a few moments, Rachael? (pause) ThankTyrell: Would you step out for a few moments, Rachael? (pause) ThankTyrell: Would you step out for a few moments, Rachael? (pause) Thank
you.you.you.you.you.
Deckard: She's a replicant, isn't she?Deckard: She's a replicant, isn't she?Deckard: She's a replicant, isn't she?Deckard: She's a replicant, isn't she?Deckard: She's a replicant, isn't she?
Tyrell: I'm impressed. How many questions does it usually take to spotTyrell: I'm impressed. How many questions does it usually take to spotTyrell: I'm impressed. How many questions does it usually take to spotTyrell: I'm impressed. How many questions does it usually take to spotTyrell: I'm impressed. How many questions does it usually take to spot
them?them?them?them?them?
Deckard: I don't get it Tyrell.Deckard: I don't get it Tyrell.Deckard: I don't get it Tyrell.Deckard: I don't get it Tyrell.Deckard: I don't get it Tyrell.
Tyrell: How many questions?Tyrell: How many questions?Tyrell: How many questions?Tyrell: How many questions?Tyrell: How many questions?
Deckard: Twenty, thirty, cross-referenced.Deckard: Twenty, thirty, cross-referenced.Deckard: Twenty, thirty, cross-referenced.Deckard: Twenty, thirty, cross-referenced.Deckard: Twenty, thirty, cross-referenced.
Tyrell: It took more than a hundred for Rachael, didn't it?Tyrell: It took more than a hundred for Rachael, didn't it?Tyrell: It took more than a hundred for Rachael, didn't it?Tyrell: It took more than a hundred for Rachael, didn't it?Tyrell: It took more than a hundred for Rachael, didn't it?
Deckard: She doesn't know?!Deckard: She doesn't know?!Deckard: She doesn't know?!Deckard: She doesn't know?!Deckard: She doesn't know?!
Tyrell: She's beginning to suspect, I think.Tyrell: She's beginning to suspect, I think.Tyrell: She's beginning to suspect, I think.Tyrell: She's beginning to suspect, I think.Tyrell: She's beginning to suspect, I think.
Deckard: Suspect? How can it not know what it is?Deckard: Suspect? How can it not know what it is?Deckard: Suspect? How can it not know what it is?Deckard: Suspect? How can it not know what it is?Deckard: Suspect? How can it not know what it is?
Tyrell: Commerce, is our goal here at Tyrell. More human than human isTyrell: Commerce, is our goal here at Tyrell. More human than human isTyrell: Commerce, is our goal here at Tyrell. More human than human isTyrell: Commerce, is our goal here at Tyrell. More human than human isTyrell: Commerce, is our goal here at Tyrell. More human than human is
our motto. Rachael is an experiment, nothing more. We began toour motto. Rachael is an experiment, nothing more. We began toour motto. Rachael is an experiment, nothing more. We began toour motto. Rachael is an experiment, nothing more. We began toour motto. Rachael is an experiment, nothing more. We began to
recognize in them strange obsessions. After all they are emotionalrecognize in them strange obsessions. After all they are emotionalrecognize in them strange obsessions. After all they are emotionalrecognize in them strange obsessions. After all they are emotionalrecognize in them strange obsessions. After all they are emotional
inexperienced with only a few years in which to store up theinexperienced with only a few years in which to store up theinexperienced with only a few years in which to store up theinexperienced with only a few years in which to store up theinexperienced with only a few years in which to store up the
experiences which you and I take for granted. If we give them the pastexperiences which you and I take for granted. If we give them the pastexperiences which you and I take for granted. If we give them the pastexperiences which you and I take for granted. If we give them the pastexperiences which you and I take for granted. If we give them the past
we create a cushion or pillow for their emotions and consequently wewe create a cushion or pillow for their emotions and consequently wewe create a cushion or pillow for their emotions and consequently wewe create a cushion or pillow for their emotions and consequently wewe create a cushion or pillow for their emotions and consequently we
can control them better.can control them better.can control them better.can control them better.can control them better.
Deckard: Memories. You're talking about memories.Deckard: Memories. You're talking about memories.Deckard: Memories. You're talking about memories.Deckard: Memories. You're talking about memories.Deckard: Memories. You're talking about memories.
[Deckard and Gaff drive to Leon's apartment in spinner, watching[Deckard and Gaff drive to Leon's apartment in spinner, watching[Deckard and Gaff drive to Leon's apartment in spinner, watching[Deckard and Gaff drive to Leon's apartment in spinner, watching[Deckard and Gaff drive to Leon's apartment in spinner, watching
Leon's video.]Leon's video.]Leon's video.]Leon's video.]Leon's video.]
Holden (video): Reaction time is a factor in this, so please payHolden (video): Reaction time is a factor in this, so please payHolden (video): Reaction time is a factor in this, so please payHolden (video): Reaction time is a factor in this, so please payHolden (video): Reaction time is a factor in this, so please pay
attention. Now, answer as quickly as you can.attention. Now, answer as quickly as you can.attention. Now, answer as quickly as you can.attention. Now, answer as quickly as you can.attention. Now, answer as quickly as you can.
Leon (video): Sure.Leon (video): Sure.Leon (video): Sure.Leon (video): Sure.Leon (video): Sure.
Holden (video): One-one-eight-seven at Hunter-Vasser.Holden (video): One-one-eight-seven at Hunter-Vasser.Holden (video): One-one-eight-seven at Hunter-Vasser.Holden (video): One-one-eight-seven at Hunter-Vasser.Holden (video): One-one-eight-seven at Hunter-Vasser.
Leon (video): Yeah, That's the hotel.Leon (video): Yeah, That's the hotel.Leon (video): Yeah, That's the hotel.Leon (video): Yeah, That's the hotel.Leon (video): Yeah, That's the hotel.
Holden (video): What?Holden (video): What?Holden (video): What?Holden (video): What?Holden (video): What?
Leon (video): Where I live.Leon (video): Where I live.Leon (video): Where I live.Leon (video): Where I live.Leon (video): Where I live.
Holden (video): Nice place?Holden (video): Nice place?Holden (video): Nice place?Holden (video): Nice place?Holden (video): Nice place?
Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--that part of the test?Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--that part of the test?Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--that part of the test?Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--that part of the test?Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--that part of the test?
Holden (video): No--Holden (video): No--Holden (video): No--Holden (video): No--Holden (video): No--
[Deckard and Gaff inspect the apartment. Deckard finds a scale in the[Deckard and Gaff inspect the apartment. Deckard finds a scale in the[Deckard and Gaff inspect the apartment. Deckard finds a scale in the[Deckard and Gaff inspect the apartment. Deckard finds a scale in the[Deckard and Gaff inspect the apartment. Deckard finds a scale in the
bathtub and some family photos. Gaff watches quietly, folding anbathtub and some family photos. Gaff watches quietly, folding anbathtub and some family photos. Gaff watches quietly, folding anbathtub and some family photos. Gaff watches quietly, folding anbathtub and some family photos. Gaff watches quietly, folding an
origami statue of a man with an erection.]origami statue of a man with an erection.]origami statue of a man with an erection.]origami statue of a man with an erection.]origami statue of a man with an erection.]
Deckard (voice-over): I didn't know whether Leon gave Holden a legitDeckard (voice-over): I didn't know whether Leon gave Holden a legitDeckard (voice-over): I didn't know whether Leon gave Holden a legitDeckard (voice-over): I didn't know whether Leon gave Holden a legitDeckard (voice-over): I didn't know whether Leon gave Holden a legit
address. But it was the only lead I had, so I checked it out. Whateveraddress. But it was the only lead I had, so I checked it out. Whateveraddress. But it was the only lead I had, so I checked it out. Whateveraddress. But it was the only lead I had, so I checked it out. Whateveraddress. But it was the only lead I had, so I checked it out. Whatever
was in the bathtub was not human. Replicants don't have scales. Andwas in the bathtub was not human. Replicants don't have scales. Andwas in the bathtub was not human. Replicants don't have scales. Andwas in the bathtub was not human. Replicants don't have scales. Andwas in the bathtub was not human. Replicants don't have scales. And
family photos? Replicants didn't have families either.family photos? Replicants didn't have families either.family photos? Replicants didn't have families either.family photos? Replicants didn't have families either.family photos? Replicants didn't have families either.
[Leon meets Roy outside of phonebooth][Leon meets Roy outside of phonebooth][Leon meets Roy outside of phonebooth][Leon meets Roy outside of phonebooth][Leon meets Roy outside of phonebooth]
Roy: Time enough. (pause) Did you get your precious photos?Roy: Time enough. (pause) Did you get your precious photos?Roy: Time enough. (pause) Did you get your precious photos?Roy: Time enough. (pause) Did you get your precious photos?Roy: Time enough. (pause) Did you get your precious photos?
Leon: Someone was there.Leon: Someone was there.Leon: Someone was there.Leon: Someone was there.Leon: Someone was there.
Roy: Man? (pause) Policeman?Roy: Man? (pause) Policeman?Roy: Man? (pause) Policeman?Roy: Man? (pause) Policeman?Roy: Man? (pause) Policeman?
[Roy and Leon enter Chew's laboratory][Roy and Leon enter Chew's laboratory][Roy and Leon enter Chew's laboratory][Roy and Leon enter Chew's laboratory][Roy and Leon enter Chew's laboratory]
Chew: (mumbles to himself) (pause) (screaming)Chew: (mumbles to himself) (pause) (screaming)Chew: (mumbles to himself) (pause) (screaming)Chew: (mumbles to himself) (pause) (screaming)Chew: (mumbles to himself) (pause) (screaming)
Roy: Fiery the angels fell. Deep thunder rode around their shores,Roy: Fiery the angels fell. Deep thunder rode around their shores,Roy: Fiery the angels fell. Deep thunder rode around their shores,Roy: Fiery the angels fell. Deep thunder rode around their shores,Roy: Fiery the angels fell. Deep thunder rode around their shores,
burning with the fires of Orc.burning with the fires of Orc.burning with the fires of Orc.burning with the fires of Orc.burning with the fires of Orc.
Chew: (stuff). You not come here. Illegal. (pause) Hey. Hey. Cold!Chew: (stuff). You not come here. Illegal. (pause) Hey. Hey. Cold!Chew: (stuff). You not come here. Illegal. (pause) Hey. Hey. Cold!Chew: (stuff). You not come here. Illegal. (pause) Hey. Hey. Cold!Chew: (stuff). You not come here. Illegal. (pause) Hey. Hey. Cold!
Those are my eyes! Freezing!Those are my eyes! Freezing!Those are my eyes! Freezing!Those are my eyes! Freezing!Those are my eyes! Freezing!
Roy: Yes, questions.Roy: Yes, questions.Roy: Yes, questions.Roy: Yes, questions.Roy: Yes, questions.
[Leon removes Chew's jacket.][Leon removes Chew's jacket.][Leon removes Chew's jacket.][Leon removes Chew's jacket.][Leon removes Chew's jacket.]
Roy: Morphology, longevity, incept dates.Roy: Morphology, longevity, incept dates.Roy: Morphology, longevity, incept dates.Roy: Morphology, longevity, incept dates.Roy: Morphology, longevity, incept dates.
Chew: Don't know -- I, I don't know such stuff. I just do eyes. JustChew: Don't know -- I, I don't know such stuff. I just do eyes. JustChew: Don't know -- I, I don't know such stuff. I just do eyes. JustChew: Don't know -- I, I don't know such stuff. I just do eyes. JustChew: Don't know -- I, I don't know such stuff. I just do eyes. Just
eyes -- Just genetic design of eyes -- just eyes. You Nexus, huh? Ieyes -- Just genetic design of eyes -- just eyes. You Nexus, huh? Ieyes -- Just genetic design of eyes -- just eyes. You Nexus, huh? Ieyes -- Just genetic design of eyes -- just eyes. You Nexus, huh? Ieyes -- Just genetic design of eyes -- just eyes. You Nexus, huh? I
design your eyes.design your eyes.design your eyes.design your eyes.design your eyes.
Roy: Chew, if only you could see what I've seen with your eyes.Roy: Chew, if only you could see what I've seen with your eyes.Roy: Chew, if only you could see what I've seen with your eyes.Roy: Chew, if only you could see what I've seen with your eyes.Roy: Chew, if only you could see what I've seen with your eyes.
Questions.Questions.Questions.Questions.Questions.
Chew: I don't know answers.Chew: I don't know answers.Chew: I don't know answers.Chew: I don't know answers.Chew: I don't know answers.
Roy: Who does?Roy: Who does?Roy: Who does?Roy: Who does?Roy: Who does?
Chew: Tyrell. He -- He knows everything.Chew: Tyrell. He -- He knows everything.Chew: Tyrell. He -- He knows everything.Chew: Tyrell. He -- He knows everything.Chew: Tyrell. He -- He knows everything.
Roy: Tyrell corporation?Roy: Tyrell corporation?Roy: Tyrell corporation?Roy: Tyrell corporation?Roy: Tyrell corporation?
Chew: He big boss. He genius. He design your mind, your brain.Chew: He big boss. He genius. He design your mind, your brain.Chew: He big boss. He genius. He design your mind, your brain.Chew: He big boss. He genius. He design your mind, your brain.Chew: He big boss. He genius. He design your mind, your brain.
Roy: Ah, smart.Roy: Ah, smart.Roy: Ah, smart.Roy: Ah, smart.Roy: Ah, smart.
Chew: Cold.Chew: Cold.Chew: Cold.Chew: Cold.Chew: Cold.
Roy: Not an easy man to see--Roy: Not an easy man to see--Roy: Not an easy man to see--Roy: Not an easy man to see--Roy: Not an easy man to see--
Chew: Very cold.Chew: Very cold.Chew: Very cold.Chew: Very cold.Chew: Very cold.
Roy: I guess?Roy: I guess?Roy: I guess?Roy: I guess?Roy: I guess?
Chew: Sebastian he take-- take you there.Chew: Sebastian he take-- take you there.Chew: Sebastian he take-- take you there.Chew: Sebastian he take-- take you there.Chew: Sebastian he take-- take you there.
Roy: Sebastian who?Roy: Sebastian who?Roy: Sebastian who?Roy: Sebastian who?Roy: Sebastian who?
Chew: J. -- J. F. Sebastian-- Sebas... Sebas...Chew: J. -- J. F. Sebastian-- Sebas... Sebas...Chew: J. -- J. F. Sebastian-- Sebas... Sebas...Chew: J. -- J. F. Sebastian-- Sebas... Sebas...Chew: J. -- J. F. Sebastian-- Sebas... Sebas...
Roy: Now--where would we find this J. F. Sebastian?Roy: Now--where would we find this J. F. Sebastian?Roy: Now--where would we find this J. F. Sebastian?Roy: Now--where would we find this J. F. Sebastian?Roy: Now--where would we find this J. F. Sebastian?
[In spinner, listening to Leon's video][In spinner, listening to Leon's video][In spinner, listening to Leon's video][In spinner, listening to Leon's video][In spinner, listening to Leon's video]
Holden (video): Describe in single words, only the good things thatHolden (video): Describe in single words, only the good things thatHolden (video): Describe in single words, only the good things thatHolden (video): Describe in single words, only the good things thatHolden (video): Describe in single words, only the good things that
come in to your mind about: your mother.come in to your mind about: your mother.come in to your mind about: your mother.come in to your mind about: your mother.come in to your mind about: your mother.
Leon (video): My mother?Leon (video): My mother?Leon (video): My mother?Leon (video): My mother?Leon (video): My mother?
Holden (video): Yeah.Holden (video): Yeah.Holden (video): Yeah.Holden (video): Yeah.Holden (video): Yeah.
Leon (video): I'll tell you about my mother. (shot fired)Leon (video): I'll tell you about my mother. (shot fired)Leon (video): I'll tell you about my mother. (shot fired)Leon (video): I'll tell you about my mother. (shot fired)Leon (video): I'll tell you about my mother. (shot fired)
**** is this right ****? [cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on**** is this right ****? [cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on**** is this right ****? [cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on**** is this right ****? [cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on**** is this right ****? [cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on
Deckard, reading a newspaper]Deckard, reading a newspaper]Deckard, reading a newspaper]Deckard, reading a newspaper]Deckard, reading a newspaper]
Elevator: Voice print identification. Your floor number please.Elevator: Voice print identification. Your floor number please.Elevator: Voice print identification. Your floor number please.Elevator: Voice print identification. Your floor number please.Elevator: Voice print identification. Your floor number please.
Deckard: Deckard, ninety-seven.Deckard: Deckard, ninety-seven.Deckard: Deckard, ninety-seven.Deckard: Deckard, ninety-seven.Deckard: Deckard, ninety-seven.
Elevator: Ninety-seven, thank-you, danke.Elevator: Ninety-seven, thank-you, danke.Elevator: Ninety-seven, thank-you, danke.Elevator: Ninety-seven, thank-you, danke.Elevator: Ninety-seven, thank-you, danke.
Rachael: I wanted to see you, (pause) so I waited. Let me help.Rachael: I wanted to see you, (pause) so I waited. Let me help.Rachael: I wanted to see you, (pause) so I waited. Let me help.Rachael: I wanted to see you, (pause) so I waited. Let me help.Rachael: I wanted to see you, (pause) so I waited. Let me help.
Deckard: What do I need help for?Deckard: What do I need help for?Deckard: What do I need help for?Deckard: What do I need help for?Deckard: What do I need help for?
Rachael: I don't know why he told you what he did.Rachael: I don't know why he told you what he did.Rachael: I don't know why he told you what he did.Rachael: I don't know why he told you what he did.Rachael: I don't know why he told you what he did.
Deckard: Talk to him.Deckard: Talk to him.Deckard: Talk to him.Deckard: Talk to him.Deckard: Talk to him.
Rachael: He wouldn't see me.Rachael: He wouldn't see me.Rachael: He wouldn't see me.Rachael: He wouldn't see me.Rachael: He wouldn't see me.
Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?
Rachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's meRachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's meRachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's meRachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's meRachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's me
with my mother.with my mother.with my mother.with my mother.with my mother.
Deckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and yourDeckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and yourDeckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and yourDeckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and yourDeckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and your
brother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--youbrother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--youbrother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--youbrother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--youbrother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--you
were gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be yourwere gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be yourwere gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be yourwere gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be yourwere gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be your
turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?
Your mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in aYour mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in aYour mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in aYour mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in aYour mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in a
bush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build abush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build abush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build abush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build abush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build a
web all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The eggweb all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The eggweb all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The eggweb all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The eggweb all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The egg
hatched--hatched--hatched--hatched--hatched--
Rachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. AndRachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. AndRachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. AndRachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. AndRachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. And
they ate her.they ate her.they ate her.they ate her.they ate her.
Deckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebodyDeckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebodyDeckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebodyDeckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebodyDeckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebody
else's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a badelse's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a badelse's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a badelse's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a badelse's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a bad
joke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Gojoke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Gojoke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Gojoke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Gojoke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Go
home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.
[Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.][Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.][Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.][Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.][Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.]
Deckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right downDeckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right downDeckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right downDeckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right downDeckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right down
to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.
Replicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were bladeReplicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were bladeReplicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were bladeReplicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were bladeReplicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were blade
runners. What the hell was happening to me? Leon's pictures had to berunners. What the hell was happening to me? Leon's pictures had to berunners. What the hell was happening to me? Leon's pictures had to berunners. What the hell was happening to me? Leon's pictures had to berunners. What the hell was happening to me? Leon's pictures had to be
as phony as Rachael's. I didn't know why a replicant would collectas phony as Rachael's. I didn't know why a replicant would collectas phony as Rachael's. I didn't know why a replicant would collectas phony as Rachael's. I didn't know why a replicant would collectas phony as Rachael's. I didn't know why a replicant would collect
photos. Maybe they were like Rachael. They needed memories.photos. Maybe they were like Rachael. They needed memories.photos. Maybe they were like Rachael. They needed memories.photos. Maybe they were like Rachael. They needed memories.photos. Maybe they were like Rachael. They needed memories.
[Deckard, on balcony.][Deckard, on balcony.][Deckard, on balcony.][Deckard, on balcony.][Deckard, on balcony.]
[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers
herself in trash pile.]herself in trash pile.]herself in trash pile.]herself in trash pile.]herself in trash pile.]
Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...
Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.
Pris: I'm lost.Pris: I'm lost.Pris: I'm lost.Pris: I'm lost.Pris: I'm lost.
Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?
Pris: Pris.Pris: Pris.Pris: Pris.Pris: Pris.Pris: Pris.
Sebastian: Mine's J. F. Sebastian.Sebastian: Mine's J. F. Sebastian.Sebastian: Mine's J. F. Sebastian.Sebastian: Mine's J. F. Sebastian.Sebastian: Mine's J. F. Sebastian.
Pris: Hi.Pris: Hi.Pris: Hi.Pris: Hi.Pris: Hi.
Sebastian: Hi. Oh, where were you going? Home?Sebastian: Hi. Oh, where were you going? Home?Sebastian: Hi. Oh, where were you going? Home?Sebastian: Hi. Oh, where were you going? Home?Sebastian: Hi. Oh, where were you going? Home?
Pris: I don't have one. We scared each other pretty good, didn't we?Pris: I don't have one. We scared each other pretty good, didn't we?Pris: I don't have one. We scared each other pretty good, didn't we?Pris: I don't have one. We scared each other pretty good, didn't we?Pris: I don't have one. We scared each other pretty good, didn't we?
Sebastian: We sure did.Sebastian: We sure did.Sebastian: We sure did.Sebastian: We sure did.Sebastian: We sure did.
Pris: I'm hungry J. F.Pris: I'm hungry J. F.Pris: I'm hungry J. F.Pris: I'm hungry J. F.Pris: I'm hungry J. F.
Sebastian: I've got some stuff inside. You want to come in?Sebastian: I've got some stuff inside. You want to come in?Sebastian: I've got some stuff inside. You want to come in?Sebastian: I've got some stuff inside. You want to come in?Sebastian: I've got some stuff inside. You want to come in?
Pris: I was hoping you'd say that.Pris: I was hoping you'd say that.Pris: I was hoping you'd say that.Pris: I was hoping you'd say that.Pris: I was hoping you'd say that.
[Pris and Sebastian enter building.][Pris and Sebastian enter building.][Pris and Sebastian enter building.][Pris and Sebastian enter building.][Pris and Sebastian enter building.]
Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?
Sebastian: Yeah, I live here pretty much alone right now. No housingSebastian: Yeah, I live here pretty much alone right now. No housingSebastian: Yeah, I live here pretty much alone right now. No housingSebastian: Yeah, I live here pretty much alone right now. No housingSebastian: Yeah, I live here pretty much alone right now. No housing
shortage around here. Plenty of room for everybody. (pause)shortage around here. Plenty of room for everybody. (pause)shortage around here. Plenty of room for everybody. (pause)shortage around here. Plenty of room for everybody. (pause)shortage around here. Plenty of room for everybody. (pause)
Pris: (cough).Pris: (cough).Pris: (cough).Pris: (cough).Pris: (cough).
Sebastian: Watch out for the water.Sebastian: Watch out for the water.Sebastian: Watch out for the water.Sebastian: Watch out for the water.Sebastian: Watch out for the water.
Pris: Must get lonely here J. F.Pris: Must get lonely here J. F.Pris: Must get lonely here J. F.Pris: Must get lonely here J. F.Pris: Must get lonely here J. F.
Sebastian: Mmm... Not really. I make friends. They're toys. My friendsSebastian: Mmm... Not really. I make friends. They're toys. My friendsSebastian: Mmm... Not really. I make friends. They're toys. My friendsSebastian: Mmm... Not really. I make friends. They're toys. My friendsSebastian: Mmm... Not really. I make friends. They're toys. My friends
are toys. I make them. It's a hobby. I'm a genetic designer. Do youare toys. I make them. It's a hobby. I'm a genetic designer. Do youare toys. I make them. It's a hobby. I'm a genetic designer. Do youare toys. I make them. It's a hobby. I'm a genetic designer. Do youare toys. I make them. It's a hobby. I'm a genetic designer. Do you
know what that is?know what that is?know what that is?know what that is?know what that is?
Pris: No.Pris: No.Pris: No.Pris: No.Pris: No.
Sebastian: Yoo-hoo, home again.Sebastian: Yoo-hoo, home again.Sebastian: Yoo-hoo, home again.Sebastian: Yoo-hoo, home again.Sebastian: Yoo-hoo, home again.
Toys: Home again, home again, jiggity jig. Good evening J. F.Toys: Home again, home again, jiggity jig. Good evening J. F.Toys: Home again, home again, jiggity jig. Good evening J. F.Toys: Home again, home again, jiggity jig. Good evening J. F.Toys: Home again, home again, jiggity jig. Good evening J. F.
Sebastian: Good evening, fellas.Sebastian: Good evening, fellas.Sebastian: Good evening, fellas.Sebastian: Good evening, fellas.Sebastian: Good evening, fellas.
Toy 1: Oooh!Toy 1: Oooh!Toy 1: Oooh!Toy 1: Oooh!Toy 1: Oooh!
Sebastian: They're my friends. I made them. Where are you're folks?Sebastian: They're my friends. I made them. Where are you're folks?Sebastian: They're my friends. I made them. Where are you're folks?Sebastian: They're my friends. I made them. Where are you're folks?Sebastian: They're my friends. I made them. Where are you're folks?
Pris: I'm sort of an orphan.Pris: I'm sort of an orphan.Pris: I'm sort of an orphan.Pris: I'm sort of an orphan.Pris: I'm sort of an orphan.
Sebastian: Oh, what about your friends?Sebastian: Oh, what about your friends?Sebastian: Oh, what about your friends?Sebastian: Oh, what about your friends?Sebastian: Oh, what about your friends?
Pris: I have some, but I have to find them. I'll let 'em know where IPris: I have some, but I have to find them. I'll let 'em know where IPris: I have some, but I have to find them. I'll let 'em know where IPris: I have some, but I have to find them. I'll let 'em know where IPris: I have some, but I have to find them. I'll let 'em know where I
am tomorrow.am tomorrow.am tomorrow.am tomorrow.am tomorrow.
Sebastian: Oh. Can I take those things for you? They're soaked aren'tSebastian: Oh. Can I take those things for you? They're soaked aren'tSebastian: Oh. Can I take those things for you? They're soaked aren'tSebastian: Oh. Can I take those things for you? They're soaked aren'tSebastian: Oh. Can I take those things for you? They're soaked aren't
they?they?they?they?they?
[scene change...] [Deckard uses the machine thing][scene change...] [Deckard uses the machine thing][scene change...] [Deckard uses the machine thing][scene change...] [Deckard uses the machine thing][scene change...] [Deckard uses the machine thing]
Deckard: Enhance 224 to 176. Enhance, stop. Move in, stop. Pull out,Deckard: Enhance 224 to 176. Enhance, stop. Move in, stop. Pull out,Deckard: Enhance 224 to 176. Enhance, stop. Move in, stop. Pull out,Deckard: Enhance 224 to 176. Enhance, stop. Move in, stop. Pull out,Deckard: Enhance 224 to 176. Enhance, stop. Move in, stop. Pull out,
track right, stop. Center in, pull back. Stop. Track 45 right. Stop.track right, stop. Center in, pull back. Stop. Track 45 right. Stop.track right, stop. Center in, pull back. Stop. Track 45 right. Stop.track right, stop. Center in, pull back. Stop. Track 45 right. Stop.track right, stop. Center in, pull back. Stop. Track 45 right. Stop.
Center and stop. Enhance 34 to 36. Pan right and pull back. Stop.Center and stop. Enhance 34 to 36. Pan right and pull back. Stop.Center and stop. Enhance 34 to 36. Pan right and pull back. Stop.Center and stop. Enhance 34 to 36. Pan right and pull back. Stop.Center and stop. Enhance 34 to 36. Pan right and pull back. Stop.
Enhance 34 to 46. Pull back. Wait a minute, go right, stop. Enhance 57Enhance 34 to 46. Pull back. Wait a minute, go right, stop. Enhance 57Enhance 34 to 46. Pull back. Wait a minute, go right, stop. Enhance 57Enhance 34 to 46. Pull back. Wait a minute, go right, stop. Enhance 57Enhance 34 to 46. Pull back. Wait a minute, go right, stop. Enhance 57
to 19. Track 45 left. Stop. Enhance 15 to 23. Give me a hard copyto 19. Track 45 left. Stop. Enhance 15 to 23. Give me a hard copyto 19. Track 45 left. Stop. Enhance 15 to 23. Give me a hard copyto 19. Track 45 left. Stop. Enhance 15 to 23. Give me a hard copyto 19. Track 45 left. Stop. Enhance 15 to 23. Give me a hard copy
right there.right there.right there.right there.right there.
[Market][Market][Market][Market][Market]
Deckard: Fish?Deckard: Fish?Deckard: Fish?Deckard: Fish?Deckard: Fish?
Lady: I think it was manufactured. Look. Finest quality. SuperiorLady: I think it was manufactured. Look. Finest quality. SuperiorLady: I think it was manufactured. Look. Finest quality. SuperiorLady: I think it was manufactured. Look. Finest quality. SuperiorLady: I think it was manufactured. Look. Finest quality. Superior
workmanship. There is a maker's serial number 9906947-XB71.workmanship. There is a maker's serial number 9906947-XB71.workmanship. There is a maker's serial number 9906947-XB71.workmanship. There is a maker's serial number 9906947-XB71.workmanship. There is a maker's serial number 9906947-XB71.
Interesting. Not fish. Snake scale.Interesting. Not fish. Snake scale.Interesting. Not fish. Snake scale.Interesting. Not fish. Snake scale.Interesting. Not fish. Snake scale.
Deckard: Snake?Deckard: Snake?Deckard: Snake?Deckard: Snake?Deckard: Snake?
Lady: Try Abdul ben Hassan. He make this snake.Lady: Try Abdul ben Hassan. He make this snake.Lady: Try Abdul ben Hassan. He make this snake.Lady: Try Abdul ben Hassan. He make this snake.Lady: Try Abdul ben Hassan. He make this snake.
[Abdul Hassan's][Abdul Hassan's][Abdul Hassan's][Abdul Hassan's][Abdul Hassan's]
Deckard: Abdul Hassan? I'm a police officer, I'd like to ask you a fewDeckard: Abdul Hassan? I'm a police officer, I'd like to ask you a fewDeckard: Abdul Hassan? I'm a police officer, I'd like to ask you a fewDeckard: Abdul Hassan? I'm a police officer, I'd like to ask you a fewDeckard: Abdul Hassan? I'm a police officer, I'd like to ask you a few
questions. Artificial snake license XB71, that's you? This is yourquestions. Artificial snake license XB71, that's you? This is yourquestions. Artificial snake license XB71, that's you? This is yourquestions. Artificial snake license XB71, that's you? This is yourquestions. Artificial snake license XB71, that's you? This is your
work, huh? Who did you sell it to?work, huh? Who did you sell it to?work, huh? Who did you sell it to?work, huh? Who did you sell it to?work, huh? Who did you sell it to?
Abdul: My work? Not too many could afford such quality.Abdul: My work? Not too many could afford such quality.Abdul: My work? Not too many could afford such quality.Abdul: My work? Not too many could afford such quality.Abdul: My work? Not too many could afford such quality.
Deckard: How many?Deckard: How many?Deckard: How many?Deckard: How many?Deckard: How many?
Abdul: Very few.Abdul: Very few.Abdul: Very few.Abdul: Very few.Abdul: Very few.
Deckard: How few? Look my friend.Deckard: How few? Look my friend.Deckard: How few? Look my friend.Deckard: How few? Look my friend.Deckard: How few? Look my friend.
Abdul: Taffy Lewis, down in first sector, Chinatown.Abdul: Taffy Lewis, down in first sector, Chinatown.Abdul: Taffy Lewis, down in first sector, Chinatown.Abdul: Taffy Lewis, down in first sector, Chinatown.Abdul: Taffy Lewis, down in first sector, Chinatown.
[Taffy Lewis's][Taffy Lewis's][Taffy Lewis's][Taffy Lewis's][Taffy Lewis's]
Deckard: Bartender? Taffy Lewis? Taffy, I'd like to ask you a fewDeckard: Bartender? Taffy Lewis? Taffy, I'd like to ask you a fewDeckard: Bartender? Taffy Lewis? Taffy, I'd like to ask you a fewDeckard: Bartender? Taffy Lewis? Taffy, I'd like to ask you a fewDeckard: Bartender? Taffy Lewis? Taffy, I'd like to ask you a few
questions.questions.questions.questions.questions.
Taffy: Blow me.Taffy: Blow me.Taffy: Blow me.Taffy: Blow me.Taffy: Blow me.
Deckard: You ever buy snakes from the Egyptian, Taffy?Deckard: You ever buy snakes from the Egyptian, Taffy?Deckard: You ever buy snakes from the Egyptian, Taffy?Deckard: You ever buy snakes from the Egyptian, Taffy?Deckard: You ever buy snakes from the Egyptian, Taffy?
Taffy: All the time, pal.Taffy: All the time, pal.Taffy: All the time, pal.Taffy: All the time, pal.Taffy: All the time, pal.
Deckard: Every see this girl, huh?Deckard: Every see this girl, huh?Deckard: Every see this girl, huh?Deckard: Every see this girl, huh?Deckard: Every see this girl, huh?
Taffy: Never seen her, buzz off.Taffy: Never seen her, buzz off.Taffy: Never seen her, buzz off.Taffy: Never seen her, buzz off.Taffy: Never seen her, buzz off.
Deckard: Your licenses in order pal?Deckard: Your licenses in order pal?Deckard: Your licenses in order pal?Deckard: Your licenses in order pal?Deckard: Your licenses in order pal?
Taffy: Hey Louie, the man is dry. Give him one on the house. See ya.Taffy: Hey Louie, the man is dry. Give him one on the house. See ya.Taffy: Hey Louie, the man is dry. Give him one on the house. See ya.Taffy: Hey Louie, the man is dry. Give him one on the house. See ya.Taffy: Hey Louie, the man is dry. Give him one on the house. See ya.
[Deckard calls Rachael on a public videophone.][Deckard calls Rachael on a public videophone.][Deckard calls Rachael on a public videophone.][Deckard calls Rachael on a public videophone.][Deckard calls Rachael on a public videophone.]
Rachael: Hello?Rachael: Hello?Rachael: Hello?Rachael: Hello?Rachael: Hello?
Deckard: I've had people walk out on me before, but not when I wasDeckard: I've had people walk out on me before, but not when I wasDeckard: I've had people walk out on me before, but not when I wasDeckard: I've had people walk out on me before, but not when I wasDeckard: I've had people walk out on me before, but not when I was
being so charming. I'm at a bar here now down at the Fourth Sector.being so charming. I'm at a bar here now down at the Fourth Sector.being so charming. I'm at a bar here now down at the Fourth Sector.being so charming. I'm at a bar here now down at the Fourth Sector.being so charming. I'm at a bar here now down at the Fourth Sector.
Taffy Lewis is on the line. Why don't you come on down here and have aTaffy Lewis is on the line. Why don't you come on down here and have aTaffy Lewis is on the line. Why don't you come on down here and have aTaffy Lewis is on the line. Why don't you come on down here and have aTaffy Lewis is on the line. Why don't you come on down here and have a
drink?drink?drink?drink?drink?
Roy: I don't think so, Mr. Deckard. That's not my kind of place.Roy: I don't think so, Mr. Deckard. That's not my kind of place.Roy: I don't think so, Mr. Deckard. That's not my kind of place.Roy: I don't think so, Mr. Deckard. That's not my kind of place.Roy: I don't think so, Mr. Deckard. That's not my kind of place.
Deckard: Go someplace else?Deckard: Go someplace else?Deckard: Go someplace else?Deckard: Go someplace else?Deckard: Go someplace else?
[Deckard returns to the Taffy's][Deckard returns to the Taffy's][Deckard returns to the Taffy's][Deckard returns to the Taffy's][Deckard returns to the Taffy's]
Announcer: Ladies and Gentlemen. Taffy Lewis presents Miss Solamay andAnnouncer: Ladies and Gentlemen. Taffy Lewis presents Miss Solamay andAnnouncer: Ladies and Gentlemen. Taffy Lewis presents Miss Solamay andAnnouncer: Ladies and Gentlemen. Taffy Lewis presents Miss Solamay andAnnouncer: Ladies and Gentlemen. Taffy Lewis presents Miss Solamay and
the snake. Watch her take the pleasures from the serpent that oncethe snake. Watch her take the pleasures from the serpent that oncethe snake. Watch her take the pleasures from the serpent that oncethe snake. Watch her take the pleasures from the serpent that oncethe snake. Watch her take the pleasures from the serpent that once
corrupted man.corrupted man.corrupted man.corrupted man.corrupted man.
[Ms. Solamay's dressing room.][Ms. Solamay's dressing room.][Ms. Solamay's dressing room.][Ms. Solamay's dressing room.][Ms. Solamay's dressing room.]
Deckard: Excuse me, Ms. Solamay, can I talk to you for a minute? I'mDeckard: Excuse me, Ms. Solamay, can I talk to you for a minute? I'mDeckard: Excuse me, Ms. Solamay, can I talk to you for a minute? I'mDeckard: Excuse me, Ms. Solamay, can I talk to you for a minute? I'mDeckard: Excuse me, Ms. Solamay, can I talk to you for a minute? I'm
from the American Federation of Variety Artists.from the American Federation of Variety Artists.from the American Federation of Variety Artists.from the American Federation of Variety Artists.from the American Federation of Variety Artists.
Zhora: Oh, yeah?Zhora: Oh, yeah?Zhora: Oh, yeah?Zhora: Oh, yeah?Zhora: Oh, yeah?
Deckard: I'm not here to make you join. No ma'am. That's not myDeckard: I'm not here to make you join. No ma'am. That's not myDeckard: I'm not here to make you join. No ma'am. That's not myDeckard: I'm not here to make you join. No ma'am. That's not myDeckard: I'm not here to make you join. No ma'am. That's not my
department. Actually, uh. I'm from the, uh, Confidential Committee ondepartment. Actually, uh. I'm from the, uh, Confidential Committee ondepartment. Actually, uh. I'm from the, uh, Confidential Committee ondepartment. Actually, uh. I'm from the, uh, Confidential Committee ondepartment. Actually, uh. I'm from the, uh, Confidential Committee on
Moral Abuses.Moral Abuses.Moral Abuses.Moral Abuses.Moral Abuses.
Zhora: Committee of Moral Abuses?Zhora: Committee of Moral Abuses?Zhora: Committee of Moral Abuses?Zhora: Committee of Moral Abuses?Zhora: Committee of Moral Abuses?
Deckard: Yes, ma'am. There's been some reports that the management hasDeckard: Yes, ma'am. There's been some reports that the management hasDeckard: Yes, ma'am. There's been some reports that the management hasDeckard: Yes, ma'am. There's been some reports that the management hasDeckard: Yes, ma'am. There's been some reports that the management has
been taking liberties with the artists in this place.been taking liberties with the artists in this place.been taking liberties with the artists in this place.been taking liberties with the artists in this place.been taking liberties with the artists in this place.
Zhora: I don't know nothing about it.Zhora: I don't know nothing about it.Zhora: I don't know nothing about it.Zhora: I don't know nothing about it.Zhora: I don't know nothing about it.
Deckard: Have you felt yourself to be exploited in any way?Deckard: Have you felt yourself to be exploited in any way?Deckard: Have you felt yourself to be exploited in any way?Deckard: Have you felt yourself to be exploited in any way?Deckard: Have you felt yourself to be exploited in any way?
Zhora: How do you mean, exploited?Zhora: How do you mean, exploited?Zhora: How do you mean, exploited?Zhora: How do you mean, exploited?Zhora: How do you mean, exploited?
Deckard: Well, like to get this job. I mean, did you do, or-- or wereDeckard: Well, like to get this job. I mean, did you do, or-- or wereDeckard: Well, like to get this job. I mean, did you do, or-- or wereDeckard: Well, like to get this job. I mean, did you do, or-- or wereDeckard: Well, like to get this job. I mean, did you do, or-- or were
you asked to do anything that was lewd or unsavory or otherwise, uh,you asked to do anything that was lewd or unsavory or otherwise, uh,you asked to do anything that was lewd or unsavory or otherwise, uh,you asked to do anything that was lewd or unsavory or otherwise, uh,you asked to do anything that was lewd or unsavory or otherwise, uh,
repulsive to your person, huh?repulsive to your person, huh?repulsive to your person, huh?repulsive to your person, huh?repulsive to your person, huh?
Zhora: Ha. Are you for real?Zhora: Ha. Are you for real?Zhora: Ha. Are you for real?Zhora: Ha. Are you for real?Zhora: Ha. Are you for real?
Deckard: Oh yeah. I'd like to check your dressing room if I may.Deckard: Oh yeah. I'd like to check your dressing room if I may.Deckard: Oh yeah. I'd like to check your dressing room if I may.Deckard: Oh yeah. I'd like to check your dressing room if I may.Deckard: Oh yeah. I'd like to check your dressing room if I may.
Zhora: For what?Zhora: For what?Zhora: For what?Zhora: For what?Zhora: For what?
Deckard: For, uh, for holes.Deckard: For, uh, for holes.Deckard: For, uh, for holes.Deckard: For, uh, for holes.Deckard: For, uh, for holes.
Zhora: Holes?Zhora: Holes?Zhora: Holes?Zhora: Holes?Zhora: Holes?
Deckard: You'd be surprised what a guy'd go through to get a glimpseDeckard: You'd be surprised what a guy'd go through to get a glimpseDeckard: You'd be surprised what a guy'd go through to get a glimpseDeckard: You'd be surprised what a guy'd go through to get a glimpseDeckard: You'd be surprised what a guy'd go through to get a glimpse
of a beautiful body.of a beautiful body.of a beautiful body.of a beautiful body.of a beautiful body.
Zhora: No, I wouldn't.Zhora: No, I wouldn't.Zhora: No, I wouldn't.Zhora: No, I wouldn't.Zhora: No, I wouldn't.
Deckard: Little, uh, dirty holes, uh, they drill in the wall so theyDeckard: Little, uh, dirty holes, uh, they drill in the wall so theyDeckard: Little, uh, dirty holes, uh, they drill in the wall so theyDeckard: Little, uh, dirty holes, uh, they drill in the wall so theyDeckard: Little, uh, dirty holes, uh, they drill in the wall so they
can watch a lady undress. (pause) Is this a real snake?can watch a lady undress. (pause) Is this a real snake?can watch a lady undress. (pause) Is this a real snake?can watch a lady undress. (pause) Is this a real snake?can watch a lady undress. (pause) Is this a real snake?
Zhora: Of course it's not real. Do you think I'd be working in a placeZhora: Of course it's not real. Do you think I'd be working in a placeZhora: Of course it's not real. Do you think I'd be working in a placeZhora: Of course it's not real. Do you think I'd be working in a placeZhora: Of course it's not real. Do you think I'd be working in a place
like this if I could afford a real snake? (pause) So if somebody doeslike this if I could afford a real snake? (pause) So if somebody doeslike this if I could afford a real snake? (pause) So if somebody doeslike this if I could afford a real snake? (pause) So if somebody doeslike this if I could afford a real snake? (pause) So if somebody does
try to exploit me, who do I go to about it?try to exploit me, who do I go to about it?try to exploit me, who do I go to about it?try to exploit me, who do I go to about it?try to exploit me, who do I go to about it?
Deckard: Me.Deckard: Me.Deckard: Me.Deckard: Me.Deckard: Me.
Zhora: You're a dedicated man.Zhora: You're a dedicated man.Zhora: You're a dedicated man.Zhora: You're a dedicated man.Zhora: You're a dedicated man.
[Fight and chase][Fight and chase][Fight and chase][Fight and chase][Fight and chase]
Hari Krishnas: Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari.Hari Krishnas: Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari.Hari Krishnas: Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari.Hari Krishnas: Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari.Hari Krishnas: Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari.
Street Thing: Cross now... Don't walk...Street Thing: Cross now... Don't walk...Street Thing: Cross now... Don't walk...Street Thing: Cross now... Don't walk...Street Thing: Cross now... Don't walk...
Deckard: Move! Get out of the way!Deckard: Move! Get out of the way!Deckard: Move! Get out of the way!Deckard: Move! Get out of the way!Deckard: Move! Get out of the way!
[Deckard fires. Kills Zhora in dramatic slow motion scene.][Deckard fires. Kills Zhora in dramatic slow motion scene.][Deckard fires. Kills Zhora in dramatic slow motion scene.][Deckard fires. Kills Zhora in dramatic slow motion scene.][Deckard fires. Kills Zhora in dramatic slow motion scene.]
Deckard (voice-over): The report would be routine retirement of aDeckard (voice-over): The report would be routine retirement of aDeckard (voice-over): The report would be routine retirement of aDeckard (voice-over): The report would be routine retirement of aDeckard (voice-over): The report would be routine retirement of a
replicant which didn't make me feel any better about shooting a womanreplicant which didn't make me feel any better about shooting a womanreplicant which didn't make me feel any better about shooting a womanreplicant which didn't make me feel any better about shooting a womanreplicant which didn't make me feel any better about shooting a woman
in the back. There it was again. Feeling, in myself. For her, forin the back. There it was again. Feeling, in myself. For her, forin the back. There it was again. Feeling, in myself. For her, forin the back. There it was again. Feeling, in myself. For her, forin the back. There it was again. Feeling, in myself. For her, for
Rachael.Rachael.Rachael.Rachael.Rachael.
Deckard: Deckard. B-263-54.Deckard: Deckard. B-263-54.Deckard: Deckard. B-263-54.Deckard: Deckard. B-263-54.Deckard: Deckard. B-263-54.
Street thing: Move on...Street thing: Move on...Street thing: Move on...Street thing: Move on...Street thing: Move on...
Holden: You reach down, you flip the tortoise over on its back Leon.Holden: You reach down, you flip the tortoise over on its back Leon.Holden: You reach down, you flip the tortoise over on its back Leon.Holden: You reach down, you flip the tortoise over on its back Leon.Holden: You reach down, you flip the tortoise over on its back Leon.
Leon: Do you make up these questions, Mr. Holden, or do they writeLeon: Do you make up these questions, Mr. Holden, or do they writeLeon: Do you make up these questions, Mr. Holden, or do they writeLeon: Do you make up these questions, Mr. Holden, or do they writeLeon: Do you make up these questions, Mr. Holden, or do they write
them down for you?them down for you?them down for you?them down for you?them down for you?
Holden: The tortoise lays on its back, its belly baking in the hot sunHolden: The tortoise lays on its back, its belly baking in the hot sunHolden: The tortoise lays on its back, its belly baking in the hot sunHolden: The tortoise lays on its back, its belly baking in the hot sunHolden: The tortoise lays on its back, its belly baking in the hot sun
beating its legs trying to turn itself over but it can't, not withoutbeating its legs trying to turn itself over but it can't, not withoutbeating its legs trying to turn itself over but it can't, not withoutbeating its legs trying to turn itself over but it can't, not withoutbeating its legs trying to turn itself over but it can't, not without
your help, but you're not helping.your help, but you're not helping.your help, but you're not helping.your help, but you're not helping.your help, but you're not helping.
Leon: What do you mean I'm not helping?Leon: What do you mean I'm not helping?Leon: What do you mean I'm not helping?Leon: What do you mean I'm not helping?Leon: What do you mean I'm not helping?
Holden: I mean, you're not helping. Why is that Leon? (pause) They'reHolden: I mean, you're not helping. Why is that Leon? (pause) They'reHolden: I mean, you're not helping. Why is that Leon? (pause) They'reHolden: I mean, you're not helping. Why is that Leon? (pause) They'reHolden: I mean, you're not helping. Why is that Leon? (pause) They're
just questions, Leon. In answer to your query, they're written downjust questions, Leon. In answer to your query, they're written downjust questions, Leon. In answer to your query, they're written downjust questions, Leon. In answer to your query, they're written downjust questions, Leon. In answer to your query, they're written down
for me. It's a test, designed to provoke an emotional response.for me. It's a test, designed to provoke an emotional response.for me. It's a test, designed to provoke an emotional response.for me. It's a test, designed to provoke an emotional response.for me. It's a test, designed to provoke an emotional response.
(pause) Shall we continue? Describe in single words, only the good(pause) Shall we continue? Describe in single words, only the good(pause) Shall we continue? Describe in single words, only the good(pause) Shall we continue? Describe in single words, only the good(pause) Shall we continue? Describe in single words, only the good
things that come in to your mind about: your mother.things that come in to your mind about: your mother.things that come in to your mind about: your mother.things that come in to your mind about: your mother.things that come in to your mind about: your mother.
Leon: My mother?Leon: My mother?Leon: My mother?Leon: My mother?Leon: My mother?
Holden: Yeah.Holden: Yeah.Holden: Yeah.Holden: Yeah.Holden: Yeah.
Leon: Let me tell you about my mother. (shot fired)Leon: Let me tell you about my mother. (shot fired)Leon: Let me tell you about my mother. (shot fired)Leon: Let me tell you about my mother. (shot fired)Leon: Let me tell you about my mother. (shot fired)
[cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on Deckard, reading a[cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on Deckard, reading a[cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on Deckard, reading a[cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on Deckard, reading a[cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on Deckard, reading a
newspaper]newspaper]newspaper]newspaper]newspaper]
Overhead blimp: A new life awaits you in the off-world colonies, theOverhead blimp: A new life awaits you in the off-world colonies, theOverhead blimp: A new life awaits you in the off-world colonies, theOverhead blimp: A new life awaits you in the off-world colonies, theOverhead blimp: A new life awaits you in the off-world colonies, the
chance to begin again in a golden land of opportunity and adventure.chance to begin again in a golden land of opportunity and adventure.chance to begin again in a golden land of opportunity and adventure.chance to begin again in a golden land of opportunity and adventure.chance to begin again in a golden land of opportunity and adventure.
New climate...New climate...New climate...New climate...New climate...
Overhead blimp: A new life awaits you in the off-world colonies, theOverhead blimp: A new life awaits you in the off-world colonies, theOverhead blimp: A new life awaits you in the off-world colonies, theOverhead blimp: A new life awaits you in the off-world colonies, theOverhead blimp: A new life awaits you in the off-world colonies, the
chance to begin again in a golden land of opportunity and adventure.chance to begin again in a golden land of opportunity and adventure.chance to begin again in a golden land of opportunity and adventure.chance to begin again in a golden land of opportunity and adventure.chance to begin again in a golden land of opportunity and adventure.
New climate, recreation facilities...New climate, recreation facilities...New climate, recreation facilities...New climate, recreation facilities...New climate, recreation facilities...
Deckard (voice-over): They don't advertise for killers in theDeckard (voice-over): They don't advertise for killers in theDeckard (voice-over): They don't advertise for killers in theDeckard (voice-over): They don't advertise for killers in theDeckard (voice-over): They don't advertise for killers in the
newspaper. That was my profession. Ex-cop, ex-bladerunner, ex-killer.newspaper. That was my profession. Ex-cop, ex-bladerunner, ex-killer.newspaper. That was my profession. Ex-cop, ex-bladerunner, ex-killer.newspaper. That was my profession. Ex-cop, ex-bladerunner, ex-killer.newspaper. That was my profession. Ex-cop, ex-bladerunner, ex-killer.
Overhead blimp: Use your new friend as aOverhead blimp: Use your new friend as aOverhead blimp: Use your new friend as aOverhead blimp: Use your new friend as aOverhead blimp: Use your new friend as a
[Deckard walks over to Chinese carry-out stand][Deckard walks over to Chinese carry-out stand][Deckard walks over to Chinese carry-out stand][Deckard walks over to Chinese carry-out stand][Deckard walks over to Chinese carry-out stand]
Deckard: Give me four. No, two, two, four. And noodles.Deckard: Give me four. No, two, two, four. And noodles.Deckard: Give me four. No, two, two, four. And noodles.Deckard: Give me four. No, two, two, four. And noodles.Deckard: Give me four. No, two, two, four. And noodles.
Deckard (voice over): Sushi, that's what my ex-wife called me. ColdDeckard (voice over): Sushi, that's what my ex-wife called me. ColdDeckard (voice over): Sushi, that's what my ex-wife called me. ColdDeckard (voice over): Sushi, that's what my ex-wife called me. ColdDeckard (voice over): Sushi, that's what my ex-wife called me. Cold
fish.fish.fish.fish.fish.
Gaff: Hey, idi-wa.Gaff: Hey, idi-wa.Gaff: Hey, idi-wa.Gaff: Hey, idi-wa.Gaff: Hey, idi-wa.
Chinese dude: He say you under arrest, Mr. Deckard.Chinese dude: He say you under arrest, Mr. Deckard.Chinese dude: He say you under arrest, Mr. Deckard.Chinese dude: He say you under arrest, Mr. Deckard.Chinese dude: He say you under arrest, Mr. Deckard.
Deckard: Got the wrong guy, pal.Deckard: Got the wrong guy, pal.Deckard: Got the wrong guy, pal.Deckard: Got the wrong guy, pal.Deckard: Got the wrong guy, pal.
Gaff:Gaff:Gaff:Gaff:Gaff:
Chinese dude: He say you blade runner.Chinese dude: He say you blade runner.Chinese dude: He say you blade runner.Chinese dude: He say you blade runner.Chinese dude: He say you blade runner.
Deckard: Tell him I'm eating.Deckard: Tell him I'm eating.Deckard: Tell him I'm eating.Deckard: Tell him I'm eating.Deckard: Tell him I'm eating.
Gaff:Gaff:Gaff:Gaff:Gaff:
Deckard: Bryant, huh?Deckard: Bryant, huh?Deckard: Bryant, huh?Deckard: Bryant, huh?Deckard: Bryant, huh?
[Deckard and Gaff take off vertically in spinner to see Bryant.][Deckard and Gaff take off vertically in spinner to see Bryant.][Deckard and Gaff take off vertically in spinner to see Bryant.][Deckard and Gaff take off vertically in spinner to see Bryant.][Deckard and Gaff take off vertically in spinner to see Bryant.]
Spinner: climb and maintain 4000 ... when approaching pad six ...Spinner: climb and maintain 4000 ... when approaching pad six ...Spinner: climb and maintain 4000 ... when approaching pad six ...Spinner: climb and maintain 4000 ... when approaching pad six ...Spinner: climb and maintain 4000 ... when approaching pad six ...
Deckard (voice-over): The charmer's name was Gaff. I'd seen himDeckard (voice-over): The charmer's name was Gaff. I'd seen himDeckard (voice-over): The charmer's name was Gaff. I'd seen himDeckard (voice-over): The charmer's name was Gaff. I'd seen himDeckard (voice-over): The charmer's name was Gaff. I'd seen him
around. Bryant must have upped him to the Blade Runner unit. Thataround. Bryant must have upped him to the Blade Runner unit. Thataround. Bryant must have upped him to the Blade Runner unit. Thataround. Bryant must have upped him to the Blade Runner unit. Thataround. Bryant must have upped him to the Blade Runner unit. That
gibberish he talked was city-speak, guttertalk, a mishmash ofgibberish he talked was city-speak, guttertalk, a mishmash ofgibberish he talked was city-speak, guttertalk, a mishmash ofgibberish he talked was city-speak, guttertalk, a mishmash ofgibberish he talked was city-speak, guttertalk, a mishmash of
Japanese, Spanish, German, what have you. I didn't really need aJapanese, Spanish, German, what have you. I didn't really need aJapanese, Spanish, German, what have you. I didn't really need aJapanese, Spanish, German, what have you. I didn't really need aJapanese, Spanish, German, what have you. I didn't really need a
translator. I knew the lingo, every good cop did. But I wasn't goingtranslator. I knew the lingo, every good cop did. But I wasn't goingtranslator. I knew the lingo, every good cop did. But I wasn't goingtranslator. I knew the lingo, every good cop did. But I wasn't goingtranslator. I knew the lingo, every good cop did. But I wasn't going
to make it easier for him.to make it easier for him.to make it easier for him.to make it easier for him.to make it easier for him.
Spinner: ...now on glide path, on course, over the landing threshold.Spinner: ...now on glide path, on course, over the landing threshold.Spinner: ...now on glide path, on course, over the landing threshold.Spinner: ...now on glide path, on course, over the landing threshold.Spinner: ...now on glide path, on course, over the landing threshold.
[Bryant's office][Bryant's office][Bryant's office][Bryant's office][Bryant's office]
Bryant: Hiya Deck.Bryant: Hiya Deck.Bryant: Hiya Deck.Bryant: Hiya Deck.Bryant: Hiya Deck.
Deckard: Bryant.Deckard: Bryant.Deckard: Bryant.Deckard: Bryant.Deckard: Bryant.
Bryant: You wouldn't have come if I just asked you to. Sit down pal.Bryant: You wouldn't have come if I just asked you to. Sit down pal.Bryant: You wouldn't have come if I just asked you to. Sit down pal.Bryant: You wouldn't have come if I just asked you to. Sit down pal.Bryant: You wouldn't have come if I just asked you to. Sit down pal.
C'mon don't be an asshole Deckard. I've got four skin jobs walking theC'mon don't be an asshole Deckard. I've got four skin jobs walking theC'mon don't be an asshole Deckard. I've got four skin jobs walking theC'mon don't be an asshole Deckard. I've got four skin jobs walking theC'mon don't be an asshole Deckard. I've got four skin jobs walking the
streets.streets.streets.streets.streets.
Deckard (voice-over): Skin jobs, that's what Bryant called replicants.Deckard (voice-over): Skin jobs, that's what Bryant called replicants.Deckard (voice-over): Skin jobs, that's what Bryant called replicants.Deckard (voice-over): Skin jobs, that's what Bryant called replicants.Deckard (voice-over): Skin jobs, that's what Bryant called replicants.
In history books he was the kind of cop that used to call black menIn history books he was the kind of cop that used to call black menIn history books he was the kind of cop that used to call black menIn history books he was the kind of cop that used to call black menIn history books he was the kind of cop that used to call black men
niggers.niggers.niggers.niggers.niggers.
Bryant: They jumped a shuttle off world killed the crew andBryant: They jumped a shuttle off world killed the crew andBryant: They jumped a shuttle off world killed the crew andBryant: They jumped a shuttle off world killed the crew andBryant: They jumped a shuttle off world killed the crew and
passengers. They found the shuttle drifting off the coast two weekspassengers. They found the shuttle drifting off the coast two weekspassengers. They found the shuttle drifting off the coast two weekspassengers. They found the shuttle drifting off the coast two weekspassengers. They found the shuttle drifting off the coast two weeks
ago so we know they're around.ago so we know they're around.ago so we know they're around.ago so we know they're around.ago so we know they're around.
Deckard: Embarrassing.Deckard: Embarrassing.Deckard: Embarrassing.Deckard: Embarrassing.Deckard: Embarrassing.
Bryant: No sir. Not embarrassing, because no one's ever going to findBryant: No sir. Not embarrassing, because no one's ever going to findBryant: No sir. Not embarrassing, because no one's ever going to findBryant: No sir. Not embarrassing, because no one's ever going to findBryant: No sir. Not embarrassing, because no one's ever going to find
out they're down here. Because you're going to spot them, and you'reout they're down here. Because you're going to spot them, and you'reout they're down here. Because you're going to spot them, and you'reout they're down here. Because you're going to spot them, and you'reout they're down here. Because you're going to spot them, and you're
going to air them out.going to air them out.going to air them out.going to air them out.going to air them out.
Decakrd: I don't work here anymore. Give it to Holden, he's good.Decakrd: I don't work here anymore. Give it to Holden, he's good.Decakrd: I don't work here anymore. Give it to Holden, he's good.Decakrd: I don't work here anymore. Give it to Holden, he's good.Decakrd: I don't work here anymore. Give it to Holden, he's good.
Bryant: I did. He can breath okay as long as nobody unplugs him. He'sBryant: I did. He can breath okay as long as nobody unplugs him. He'sBryant: I did. He can breath okay as long as nobody unplugs him. He'sBryant: I did. He can breath okay as long as nobody unplugs him. He'sBryant: I did. He can breath okay as long as nobody unplugs him. He's
not good enough, not as good as you. I need you, Deck. This is a badnot good enough, not as good as you. I need you, Deck. This is a badnot good enough, not as good as you. I need you, Deck. This is a badnot good enough, not as good as you. I need you, Deck. This is a badnot good enough, not as good as you. I need you, Deck. This is a bad
one, the worse yet. I need the old bladerunner, I need your magic.one, the worse yet. I need the old bladerunner, I need your magic.one, the worse yet. I need the old bladerunner, I need your magic.one, the worse yet. I need the old bladerunner, I need your magic.one, the worse yet. I need the old bladerunner, I need your magic.
Deckard: I was quit when I came in here. I'm twice as quit now.Deckard: I was quit when I came in here. I'm twice as quit now.Deckard: I was quit when I came in here. I'm twice as quit now.Deckard: I was quit when I came in here. I'm twice as quit now.Deckard: I was quit when I came in here. I'm twice as quit now.
Bryant: Stop right where you are. You know the score pal. If you'reBryant: Stop right where you are. You know the score pal. If you'reBryant: Stop right where you are. You know the score pal. If you'reBryant: Stop right where you are. You know the score pal. If you'reBryant: Stop right where you are. You know the score pal. If you're
not cop, you're little people.not cop, you're little people.not cop, you're little people.not cop, you're little people.not cop, you're little people.
Deckard: No choice, huh?Deckard: No choice, huh?Deckard: No choice, huh?Deckard: No choice, huh?Deckard: No choice, huh?
Bryant: No choice pal.Bryant: No choice pal.Bryant: No choice pal.Bryant: No choice pal.Bryant: No choice pal.
--- [Video room]--- [Video room]--- [Video room]--- [Video room]--- [Video room]
Leon (video): I already had an IQ test this year, I don't think I'veLeon (video): I already had an IQ test this year, I don't think I'veLeon (video): I already had an IQ test this year, I don't think I'veLeon (video): I already had an IQ test this year, I don't think I'veLeon (video): I already had an IQ test this year, I don't think I've
ever had one of these-ever had one of these-ever had one of these-ever had one of these-ever had one of these-
Holden (video): Reaction time is a factor in this, so please payHolden (video): Reaction time is a factor in this, so please payHolden (video): Reaction time is a factor in this, so please payHolden (video): Reaction time is a factor in this, so please payHolden (video): Reaction time is a factor in this, so please pay
attention. Now, answer as quickly as you can.attention. Now, answer as quickly as you can.attention. Now, answer as quickly as you can.attention. Now, answer as quickly as you can.attention. Now, answer as quickly as you can.
Leon (video): Yeah, sure.Leon (video): Yeah, sure.Leon (video): Yeah, sure.Leon (video): Yeah, sure.Leon (video): Yeah, sure.
Holden (video): 1-1-8-7 at Hunter-Vasser.Holden (video): 1-1-8-7 at Hunter-Vasser.Holden (video): 1-1-8-7 at Hunter-Vasser.Holden (video): 1-1-8-7 at Hunter-Vasser.Holden (video): 1-1-8-7 at Hunter-Vasser.
Leon (video): Yeah, that's the hotel.Leon (video): Yeah, that's the hotel.Leon (video): Yeah, that's the hotel.Leon (video): Yeah, that's the hotel.Leon (video): Yeah, that's the hotel.
Holden (video): What?Holden (video): What?Holden (video): What?Holden (video): What?Holden (video): What?
Leon (video): Where I live.Leon (video): Where I live.Leon (video): Where I live.Leon (video): Where I live.Leon (video): Where I live.
Holden (video): Nice place?Holden (video): Nice place?Holden (video): Nice place?Holden (video): Nice place?Holden (video): Nice place?
Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--
Bryant: There was an escape from the off-world colonies two weeks ago.Bryant: There was an escape from the off-world colonies two weeks ago.Bryant: There was an escape from the off-world colonies two weeks ago.Bryant: There was an escape from the off-world colonies two weeks ago.Bryant: There was an escape from the off-world colonies two weeks ago.
Six replicants, three male, three female. They slaughteredSix replicants, three male, three female. They slaughteredSix replicants, three male, three female. They slaughteredSix replicants, three male, three female. They slaughteredSix replicants, three male, three female. They slaughtered
twenty-three people and jumped a shuttle. An aerial patrol spotted thetwenty-three people and jumped a shuttle. An aerial patrol spotted thetwenty-three people and jumped a shuttle. An aerial patrol spotted thetwenty-three people and jumped a shuttle. An aerial patrol spotted thetwenty-three people and jumped a shuttle. An aerial patrol spotted the
ship off the coast. No crew, no sight of them. Three nights ago theyship off the coast. No crew, no sight of them. Three nights ago theyship off the coast. No crew, no sight of them. Three nights ago theyship off the coast. No crew, no sight of them. Three nights ago theyship off the coast. No crew, no sight of them. Three nights ago they
tried to break into Tyrell Corporation. One of them got fried runningtried to break into Tyrell Corporation. One of them got fried runningtried to break into Tyrell Corporation. One of them got fried runningtried to break into Tyrell Corporation. One of them got fried runningtried to break into Tyrell Corporation. One of them got fried running
through an electrical field. We lost the others. On the possibilitythrough an electrical field. We lost the others. On the possibilitythrough an electrical field. We lost the others. On the possibilitythrough an electrical field. We lost the others. On the possibilitythrough an electrical field. We lost the others. On the possibility
they might try to infiltrate his employees, I had Holden go over andthey might try to infiltrate his employees, I had Holden go over andthey might try to infiltrate his employees, I had Holden go over andthey might try to infiltrate his employees, I had Holden go over andthey might try to infiltrate his employees, I had Holden go over and
run Voight-Kampff tests on the new workers. Looks like he got himselfrun Voight-Kampff tests on the new workers. Looks like he got himselfrun Voight-Kampff tests on the new workers. Looks like he got himselfrun Voight-Kampff tests on the new workers. Looks like he got himselfrun Voight-Kampff tests on the new workers. Looks like he got himself
one.one.one.one.one.
Holden (video): So you look down you see a tortoise. It's crawlingHolden (video): So you look down you see a tortoise. It's crawlingHolden (video): So you look down you see a tortoise. It's crawlingHolden (video): So you look down you see a tortoise. It's crawlingHolden (video): So you look down you see a tortoise. It's crawling
toward you.toward you.toward you.toward you.toward you.
Leon (video): Tortoise, what's that?Leon (video): Tortoise, what's that?Leon (video): Tortoise, what's that?Leon (video): Tortoise, what's that?Leon (video): Tortoise, what's that?
Holden (video): Know what a turtle is?Holden (video): Know what a turtle is?Holden (video): Know what a turtle is?Holden (video): Know what a turtle is?Holden (video): Know what a turtle is?
Leon (video): Of course.Leon (video): Of course.Leon (video): Of course.Leon (video): Of course.Leon (video): Of course.
Holden (video): Same thing.Holden (video): Same thing.Holden (video): Same thing.Holden (video): Same thing.Holden (video): Same thing.
Leon (video): I've never seen a turtle.Leon (video): I've never seen a turtle.Leon (video): I've never seen a turtle.Leon (video): I've never seen a turtle.Leon (video): I've never seen a turtle.
Deckard: I don't get it. What do they risk coming back to earth for?Deckard: I don't get it. What do they risk coming back to earth for?Deckard: I don't get it. What do they risk coming back to earth for?Deckard: I don't get it. What do they risk coming back to earth for?Deckard: I don't get it. What do they risk coming back to earth for?
That's unusual. Why--what do they want from the Tyrell Corporation?That's unusual. Why--what do they want from the Tyrell Corporation?That's unusual. Why--what do they want from the Tyrell Corporation?That's unusual. Why--what do they want from the Tyrell Corporation?That's unusual. Why--what do they want from the Tyrell Corporation?
Bryant: Well you tell me pal, that's what you're here for.Bryant: Well you tell me pal, that's what you're here for.Bryant: Well you tell me pal, that's what you're here for.Bryant: Well you tell me pal, that's what you're here for.Bryant: Well you tell me pal, that's what you're here for.
Deckard: [funny look]. [pause] What's this?Deckard: [funny look]. [pause] What's this?Deckard: [funny look]. [pause] What's this?Deckard: [funny look]. [pause] What's this?Deckard: [funny look]. [pause] What's this?
Bryant: Nexus 6. Roy Batty. Incept date 2016. Combat model. OptimumBryant: Nexus 6. Roy Batty. Incept date 2016. Combat model. OptimumBryant: Nexus 6. Roy Batty. Incept date 2016. Combat model. OptimumBryant: Nexus 6. Roy Batty. Incept date 2016. Combat model. OptimumBryant: Nexus 6. Roy Batty. Incept date 2016. Combat model. Optimum
self-sufficiency. Probably the leader. This is Zhora. She's trainedself-sufficiency. Probably the leader. This is Zhora. She's trainedself-sufficiency. Probably the leader. This is Zhora. She's trainedself-sufficiency. Probably the leader. This is Zhora. She's trainedself-sufficiency. Probably the leader. This is Zhora. She's trained
for an off-world kick-murder squad. Talk about beauty and the beast,for an off-world kick-murder squad. Talk about beauty and the beast,for an off-world kick-murder squad. Talk about beauty and the beast,for an off-world kick-murder squad. Talk about beauty and the beast,for an off-world kick-murder squad. Talk about beauty and the beast,
she's both. The fourth skin job is Pris. A basic pleasure model. Theshe's both. The fourth skin job is Pris. A basic pleasure model. Theshe's both. The fourth skin job is Pris. A basic pleasure model. Theshe's both. The fourth skin job is Pris. A basic pleasure model. Theshe's both. The fourth skin job is Pris. A basic pleasure model. The
standard item for military clubs in the outer colonies. They werestandard item for military clubs in the outer colonies. They werestandard item for military clubs in the outer colonies. They werestandard item for military clubs in the outer colonies. They werestandard item for military clubs in the outer colonies. They were
designed to copy human beings in every way except their emotions. Thedesigned to copy human beings in every way except their emotions. Thedesigned to copy human beings in every way except their emotions. Thedesigned to copy human beings in every way except their emotions. Thedesigned to copy human beings in every way except their emotions. The
designers reckoned that after a few years they might develop their owndesigners reckoned that after a few years they might develop their owndesigners reckoned that after a few years they might develop their owndesigners reckoned that after a few years they might develop their owndesigners reckoned that after a few years they might develop their own
emotional responses. You know, hate, love, fear, envy. So they builtemotional responses. You know, hate, love, fear, envy. So they builtemotional responses. You know, hate, love, fear, envy. So they builtemotional responses. You know, hate, love, fear, envy. So they builtemotional responses. You know, hate, love, fear, envy. So they built
in a fail-safe device.in a fail-safe device.in a fail-safe device.in a fail-safe device.in a fail-safe device.
Deckard: Which is what?Deckard: Which is what?Deckard: Which is what?Deckard: Which is what?Deckard: Which is what?
Bryant: Four year life span.Bryant: Four year life span.Bryant: Four year life span.Bryant: Four year life span.Bryant: Four year life span.
Bryant: Now there's a Nexus 6 over at the Tyrell Corporation. I wantBryant: Now there's a Nexus 6 over at the Tyrell Corporation. I wantBryant: Now there's a Nexus 6 over at the Tyrell Corporation. I wantBryant: Now there's a Nexus 6 over at the Tyrell Corporation. I wantBryant: Now there's a Nexus 6 over at the Tyrell Corporation. I want
you to go put the machine on it.you to go put the machine on it.you to go put the machine on it.you to go put the machine on it.you to go put the machine on it.
Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?
[Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building][Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building][Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building][Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building][Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building]
Deckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full ofDeckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full ofDeckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full ofDeckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full ofDeckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full of
killing. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that'skilling. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that'skilling. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that'skilling. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that'skilling. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that's
exactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked inexactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked inexactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked inexactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked inexactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked in
once more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. Ionce more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. Ionce more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. Ionce more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. Ionce more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. I
didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,
so he didn't want me back anyway.so he didn't want me back anyway.so he didn't want me back anyway.so he didn't want me back anyway.so he didn't want me back anyway.
[inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian][inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian][inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian][inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian][inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian]
Rachael: Do you like our owl?Rachael: Do you like our owl?Rachael: Do you like our owl?Rachael: Do you like our owl?Rachael: Do you like our owl?
Deckard: It's artificial?Deckard: It's artificial?Deckard: It's artificial?Deckard: It's artificial?Deckard: It's artificial?
Rachael: Of course it is.Rachael: Of course it is.Rachael: Of course it is.Rachael: Of course it is.Rachael: Of course it is.
Deckard: Must be expensive.Deckard: Must be expensive.Deckard: Must be expensive.Deckard: Must be expensive.Deckard: Must be expensive.
Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.
Deckard: Deckard.Deckard: Deckard.Deckard: Deckard.Deckard: Deckard.Deckard: Deckard.
Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.
Deckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either aDeckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either aDeckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either aDeckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either aDeckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either a
benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.
Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?
Deckard: Sure.Deckard: Sure.Deckard: Sure.Deckard: Sure.Deckard: Sure.
Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?
Deckard: No.Deckard: No.Deckard: No.Deckard: No.Deckard: No.
Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?
Tyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of theTyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of theTyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of theTyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of theTyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of the
so-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntaryso-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntaryso-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntaryso-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntaryso-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntary
dilation of the iris?dilation of the iris?dilation of the iris?dilation of the iris?dilation of the iris?
Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.
Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.
Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.
Deckard: Where's the subject?Deckard: Where's the subject?Deckard: Where's the subject?Deckard: Where's the subject?Deckard: Where's the subject?
Tyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negativeTyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negativeTyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negativeTyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negativeTyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negative
before I provide you with a positive.before I provide you with a positive.before I provide you with a positive.before I provide you with a positive.before I provide you with a positive.
Deckard: What's that going to prove?Deckard: What's that going to prove?Deckard: What's that going to prove?Deckard: What's that going to prove?Deckard: What's that going to prove?
Tyrell: Indulge me.Tyrell: Indulge me.Tyrell: Indulge me.Tyrell: Indulge me.Tyrell: Indulge me.
Deckard: On you?Deckard: On you?Deckard: On you?Deckard: On you?Deckard: On you?
Tyrell: Try her.Tyrell: Try her.Tyrell: Try her.Tyrell: Try her.Tyrell: Try her.
Deckard: It's too bright in here.Deckard: It's too bright in here.Deckard: It's too bright in here.Deckard: It's too bright in here.Deckard: It's too bright in here.
[the window changes shade, letting less light in][the window changes shade, letting less light in][the window changes shade, letting less light in][the window changes shade, letting less light in][the window changes shade, letting less light in]
Rachael: Do you mind if I smoke?Rachael: Do you mind if I smoke?Rachael: Do you mind if I smoke?Rachael: Do you mind if I smoke?Rachael: Do you mind if I smoke?
Deckard: It won't affect the test. Alright, I'm going to ask you aDeckard: It won't affect the test. Alright, I'm going to ask you aDeckard: It won't affect the test. Alright, I'm going to ask you aDeckard: It won't affect the test. Alright, I'm going to ask you aDeckard: It won't affect the test. Alright, I'm going to ask you a
series of questions. Just relax and answer them as simply as you can.series of questions. Just relax and answer them as simply as you can.series of questions. Just relax and answer them as simply as you can.series of questions. Just relax and answer them as simply as you can.series of questions. Just relax and answer them as simply as you can.
(pause) It's your birthday. Someone gives you a calfskin wallet.(pause) It's your birthday. Someone gives you a calfskin wallet.(pause) It's your birthday. Someone gives you a calfskin wallet.(pause) It's your birthday. Someone gives you a calfskin wallet.(pause) It's your birthday. Someone gives you a calfskin wallet.
Rachael: I wouldn't accept it. Also, I'd report the person who gave itRachael: I wouldn't accept it. Also, I'd report the person who gave itRachael: I wouldn't accept it. Also, I'd report the person who gave itRachael: I wouldn't accept it. Also, I'd report the person who gave itRachael: I wouldn't accept it. Also, I'd report the person who gave it
to me to the police.to me to the police.to me to the police.to me to the police.to me to the police.
Deckard: You've got a little boy. He shows you his butterflyDeckard: You've got a little boy. He shows you his butterflyDeckard: You've got a little boy. He shows you his butterflyDeckard: You've got a little boy. He shows you his butterflyDeckard: You've got a little boy. He shows you his butterfly
collection plus the killing jar.collection plus the killing jar.collection plus the killing jar.collection plus the killing jar.collection plus the killing jar.
Rachael: I take him to the doctor.Rachael: I take him to the doctor.Rachael: I take him to the doctor.Rachael: I take him to the doctor.Rachael: I take him to the doctor.
Deckard: You're watching television. Suddenly you realize there's aDeckard: You're watching television. Suddenly you realize there's aDeckard: You're watching television. Suddenly you realize there's aDeckard: You're watching television. Suddenly you realize there's aDeckard: You're watching television. Suddenly you realize there's a
wasp crawling on your arm.wasp crawling on your arm.wasp crawling on your arm.wasp crawling on your arm.wasp crawling on your arm.
Rachael: I'd kill it.Rachael: I'd kill it.Rachael: I'd kill it.Rachael: I'd kill it.Rachael: I'd kill it.
Deckard: You're reading a magazine. You come across a full-page nudeDeckard: You're reading a magazine. You come across a full-page nudeDeckard: You're reading a magazine. You come across a full-page nudeDeckard: You're reading a magazine. You come across a full-page nudeDeckard: You're reading a magazine. You come across a full-page nude
photo of a girl.photo of a girl.photo of a girl.photo of a girl.photo of a girl.
Rachael: Is this testing whether I'm a replicant or a lesbian, Mr.Rachael: Is this testing whether I'm a replicant or a lesbian, Mr.Rachael: Is this testing whether I'm a replicant or a lesbian, Mr.Rachael: Is this testing whether I'm a replicant or a lesbian, Mr.Rachael: Is this testing whether I'm a replicant or a lesbian, Mr.
Deckard?Deckard?Deckard?Deckard?Deckard?
Deckard: Just answer the questions, please. (pause) You show it toDeckard: Just answer the questions, please. (pause) You show it toDeckard: Just answer the questions, please. (pause) You show it toDeckard: Just answer the questions, please. (pause) You show it toDeckard: Just answer the questions, please. (pause) You show it to
your husband. He likes it so much he hangs it on your bedroom wall.your husband. He likes it so much he hangs it on your bedroom wall.your husband. He likes it so much he hangs it on your bedroom wall.your husband. He likes it so much he hangs it on your bedroom wall.your husband. He likes it so much he hangs it on your bedroom wall.
Deckard (background): bush outside your windowDeckard (background): bush outside your windowDeckard (background): bush outside your windowDeckard (background): bush outside your windowDeckard (background): bush outside your window
Rachael: I wouldn't let him.Rachael: I wouldn't let him.Rachael: I wouldn't let him.Rachael: I wouldn't let him.Rachael: I wouldn't let him.
Deckard (background): orange body, green legsDeckard (background): orange body, green legsDeckard (background): orange body, green legsDeckard (background): orange body, green legsDeckard (background): orange body, green legs
Deckard: Why not?Deckard: Why not?Deckard: Why not?Deckard: Why not?Deckard: Why not?
Rachael: I should be enough for him.Rachael: I should be enough for him.Rachael: I should be enough for him.Rachael: I should be enough for him.Rachael: I should be enough for him.
[audio fades out and in, time passes.][audio fades out and in, time passes.][audio fades out and in, time passes.][audio fades out and in, time passes.][audio fades out and in, time passes.]
Deckard: One more question. You're watching a stage play. A banquet isDeckard: One more question. You're watching a stage play. A banquet isDeckard: One more question. You're watching a stage play. A banquet isDeckard: One more question. You're watching a stage play. A banquet isDeckard: One more question. You're watching a stage play. A banquet is
in progress. The guests are enjoying an appetizer of raw oysters. Thein progress. The guests are enjoying an appetizer of raw oysters. Thein progress. The guests are enjoying an appetizer of raw oysters. Thein progress. The guests are enjoying an appetizer of raw oysters. Thein progress. The guests are enjoying an appetizer of raw oysters. The
entree consists of boiled dog.entree consists of boiled dog.entree consists of boiled dog.entree consists of boiled dog.entree consists of boiled dog.
Roy: Yes, questions.Roy: Yes, questions.Roy: Yes, questions.Roy: Yes, questions.Roy: Yes, questions.
[Leon removes Chew's jacket.][Leon removes Chew's jacket.][Leon removes Chew's jacket.][Leon removes Chew's jacket.][Leon removes Chew's jacket.]
Roy: Morphology, longevity, incept dates.Roy: Morphology, longevity, incept dates.Roy: Morphology, longevity, incept dates.Roy: Morphology, longevity, incept dates.Roy: Morphology, longevity, incept dates.
Chew: Don't know -- I, I don't know such stuff. I just do eyes. JustChew: Don't know -- I, I don't know such stuff. I just do eyes. JustChew: Don't know -- I, I don't know such stuff. I just do eyes. JustChew: Don't know -- I, I don't know such stuff. I just do eyes. JustChew: Don't know -- I, I don't know such stuff. I just do eyes. Just
eyes -- Just genetic design of eyes -- just eyes. You Nexus, huh? Ieyes -- Just genetic design of eyes -- just eyes. You Nexus, huh? Ieyes -- Just genetic design of eyes -- just eyes. You Nexus, huh? Ieyes -- Just genetic design of eyes -- just eyes. You Nexus, huh? Ieyes -- Just genetic design of eyes -- just eyes. You Nexus, huh? I
design your eyes.design your eyes.design your eyes.design your eyes.design your eyes.
Roy: Chew, if only you could see what I've seen with your eyes.Roy: Chew, if only you could see what I've seen with your eyes.Roy: Chew, if only you could see what I've seen with your eyes.Roy: Chew, if only you could see what I've seen with your eyes.Roy: Chew, if only you could see what I've seen with your eyes.
Questions.Questions.Questions.Questions.Questions.
Chew: I don't know answers.Chew: I don't know answers.Chew: I don't know answers.Chew: I don't know answers.Chew: I don't know answers.
Roy: Who does?Roy: Who does?Roy: Who does?Roy: Who does?Roy: Who does?
Chew: Tyrell. He -- He knows everything.Chew: Tyrell. He -- He knows everything.Chew: Tyrell. He -- He knows everything.Chew: Tyrell. He -- He knows everything.Chew: Tyrell. He -- He knows everything.
Roy: Tyrell corporation?Roy: Tyrell corporation?Roy: Tyrell corporation?Roy: Tyrell corporation?Roy: Tyrell corporation?
Chew: He big boss. He genius. He design your mind, your brain.Chew: He big boss. He genius. He design your mind, your brain.Chew: He big boss. He genius. He design your mind, your brain.Chew: He big boss. He genius. He design your mind, your brain.Chew: He big boss. He genius. He design your mind, your brain.
Roy: Ah, smart.Roy: Ah, smart.Roy: Ah, smart.Roy: Ah, smart.Roy: Ah, smart.
Chew: Cold.Chew: Cold.Chew: Cold.Chew: Cold.Chew: Cold.
Roy: Not an easy man to see--Roy: Not an easy man to see--Roy: Not an easy man to see--Roy: Not an easy man to see--Roy: Not an easy man to see--
Chew: Very cold.Chew: Very cold.Chew: Very cold.Chew: Very cold.Chew: Very cold.
Roy: I guess?Roy: I guess?Roy: I guess?Roy: I guess?Roy: I guess?
Chew: Sebastian he take-- take you there.Chew: Sebastian he take-- take you there.Chew: Sebastian he take-- take you there.Chew: Sebastian he take-- take you there.Chew: Sebastian he take-- take you there.
Roy: Sebastian who?Roy: Sebastian who?Roy: Sebastian who?Roy: Sebastian who?Roy: Sebastian who?
Chew: J. -- J. F. Sebastian-- Sebas... Sebas...Chew: J. -- J. F. Sebastian-- Sebas... Sebas...Chew: J. -- J. F. Sebastian-- Sebas... Sebas...Chew: J. -- J. F. Sebastian-- Sebas... Sebas...Chew: J. -- J. F. Sebastian-- Sebas... Sebas...
Roy: Now--where would we find this J. F. Sebastian?Roy: Now--where would we find this J. F. Sebastian?Roy: Now--where would we find this J. F. Sebastian?Roy: Now--where would we find this J. F. Sebastian?Roy: Now--where would we find this J. F. Sebastian?
[In spinner, listening to Leon's video][In spinner, listening to Leon's video][In spinner, listening to Leon's video][In spinner, listening to Leon's video][In spinner, listening to Leon's video]
Holden (video): Describe in single words, only the good things thatHolden (video): Describe in single words, only the good things thatHolden (video): Describe in single words, only the good things thatHolden (video): Describe in single words, only the good things thatHolden (video): Describe in single words, only the good things that
come in to your mind about: your mother.come in to your mind about: your mother.come in to your mind about: your mother.come in to your mind about: your mother.come in to your mind about: your mother.
Leon (video): My mother?Leon (video): My mother?Leon (video): My mother?Leon (video): My mother?Leon (video): My mother?
Holden (video): Yeah.Holden (video): Yeah.Holden (video): Yeah.Holden (video): Yeah.Holden (video): Yeah.
Leon (video): I'll tell you about my mother. (shot fired)Leon (video): I'll tell you about my mother. (shot fired)Leon (video): I'll tell you about my mother. (shot fired)Leon (video): I'll tell you about my mother. (shot fired)Leon (video): I'll tell you about my mother. (shot fired)
**** is this right ****? [cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on**** is this right ****? [cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on**** is this right ****? [cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on**** is this right ****? [cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on**** is this right ****? [cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on
Deckard, reading a newspaper]Deckard, reading a newspaper]Deckard, reading a newspaper]Deckard, reading a newspaper]Deckard, reading a newspaper]
Elevator: Voice print identification. Your floor number please.Elevator: Voice print identification. Your floor number please.Elevator: Voice print identification. Your floor number please.Elevator: Voice print identification. Your floor number please.Elevator: Voice print identification. Your floor number please.
Deckard: Deckard, ninety-seven.Deckard: Deckard, ninety-seven.Deckard: Deckard, ninety-seven.Deckard: Deckard, ninety-seven.Deckard: Deckard, ninety-seven.
Elevator: Ninety-seven, thank-you, danke.Elevator: Ninety-seven, thank-you, danke.Elevator: Ninety-seven, thank-you, danke.Elevator: Ninety-seven, thank-you, danke.Elevator: Ninety-seven, thank-you, danke.
Rachael: I wanted to see you, (pause) so I waited. Let me help.Rachael: I wanted to see you, (pause) so I waited. Let me help.Rachael: I wanted to see you, (pause) so I waited. Let me help.Rachael: I wanted to see you, (pause) so I waited. Let me help.Rachael: I wanted to see you, (pause) so I waited. Let me help.
Deckard: What do I need help for?Deckard: What do I need help for?Deckard: What do I need help for?Deckard: What do I need help for?Deckard: What do I need help for?
Rachael: I don't know why he told you what he did.Rachael: I don't know why he told you what he did.Rachael: I don't know why he told you what he did.Rachael: I don't know why he told you what he did.Rachael: I don't know why he told you what he did.
Deckard: Talk to him.Deckard: Talk to him.Deckard: Talk to him.Deckard: Talk to him.Deckard: Talk to him.
Rachael: He wouldn't see me.Rachael: He wouldn't see me.Rachael: He wouldn't see me.Rachael: He wouldn't see me.Rachael: He wouldn't see me.
Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?
Rachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's meRachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's meRachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's meRachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's meRachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's me
with my mother.with my mother.with my mother.with my mother.with my mother.
Deckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and yourDeckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and yourDeckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and yourDeckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and yourDeckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and your
brother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--youbrother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--youbrother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--youbrother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--youbrother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--you
were gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be yourwere gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be yourwere gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be yourwere gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be yourwere gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be your
turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?
Your mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in aYour mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in aYour mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in aYour mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in aYour mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in a
bush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build abush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build abush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build abush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build abush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build a
web all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The eggweb all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The eggweb all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The eggweb all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The eggweb all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The egg
hatched--hatched--hatched--hatched--hatched--
Rachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. AndRachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. AndRachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. AndRachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. AndRachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. And
they ate her.they ate her.they ate her.they ate her.they ate her.
Deckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebodyDeckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebodyDeckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebodyDeckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebodyDeckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebody
else's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a badelse's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a badelse's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a badelse's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a badelse's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a bad
joke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Gojoke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Gojoke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Gojoke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Gojoke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Go
home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.
[Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.][Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.][Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.][Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.][Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.]
Deckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right downDeckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right downDeckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right downDeckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right downDeckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right down
to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.
Replicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were bladeReplicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were bladeReplicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were bladeReplicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were bladeReplicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were blade
runners. What the hell was happening to me? Leon's pictures had to berunners. What the hell was happening to me? Leon's pictures had to berunners. What the hell was happening to me? Leon's pictures had to berunners. What the hell was happening to me? Leon's pictures had to berunners. What the hell was happening to me? Leon's pictures had to be
as phony as Rachael's. I didn't know why a replicant would collectas phony as Rachael's. I didn't know why a replicant would collectas phony as Rachael's. I didn't know why a replicant would collectas phony as Rachael's. I didn't know why a replicant would collectas phony as Rachael's. I didn't know why a replicant would collect
photos. Maybe they were like Rachael. They needed memories.photos. Maybe they were like Rachael. They needed memories.photos. Maybe they were like Rachael. They needed memories.photos. Maybe they were like Rachael. They needed memories.photos. Maybe they were like Rachael. They needed memories.
[Deckard, on balcony.][Deckard, on balcony.][Deckard, on balcony.][Deckard, on balcony.][Deckard, on balcony.]
[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers
herself in trash pile.]herself in trash pile.]herself in trash pile.]herself in trash pile.]herself in trash pile.]
Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...
Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.
Pris: I'm lost.Pris: I'm lost.Pris: I'm lost.Pris: I'm lost.Pris: I'm lost.
Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?
Pris: Pris.Pris: Pris.Pris: Pris.Pris: Pris.Pris: Pris.
Sebastian: Mine's J. F. Sebastian.Sebastian: Mine's J. F. Sebastian.Sebastian: Mine's J. F. Sebastian.Sebastian: Mine's J. F. Sebastian.Sebastian: Mine's J. F. Sebastian.
Pris: Hi.Pris: Hi.Pris: Hi.Pris: Hi.Pris: Hi.
Sebastian: Hi. Oh, where were you going? Home?Sebastian: Hi. Oh, where were you going? Home?Sebastian: Hi. Oh, where were you going? Home?Sebastian: Hi. Oh, where were you going? Home?Sebastian: Hi. Oh, where were you going? Home?
Pris: I don't have one. We scared each other pretty good, didn't we?Pris: I don't have one. We scared each other pretty good, didn't we?Pris: I don't have one. We scared each other pretty good, didn't we?Pris: I don't have one. We scared each other pretty good, didn't we?Pris: I don't have one. We scared each other pretty good, didn't we?
Sebastian: We sure did.Sebastian: We sure did.Sebastian: We sure did.Sebastian: We sure did.Sebastian: We sure did.
Pris: I'm hungry J. F.Pris: I'm hungry J. F.Pris: I'm hungry J. F.Pris: I'm hungry J. F.Pris: I'm hungry J. F.
Sebastian: I've got some stuff inside. You want to come in?Sebastian: I've got some stuff inside. You want to come in?Sebastian: I've got some stuff inside. You want to come in?Sebastian: I've got some stuff inside. You want to come in?Sebastian: I've got some stuff inside. You want to come in?
Pris: I was hoping you'd say that.Pris: I was hoping you'd say that.Pris: I was hoping you'd say that.Pris: I was hoping you'd say that.Pris: I was hoping you'd say that.
[Pris and Sebastian enter building.][Pris and Sebastian enter building.][Pris and Sebastian enter building.][Pris and Sebastian enter building.][Pris and Sebastian enter building.]
Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?
Sebastian: Yeah, I live here pretty much alone right now. No housingSebastian: Yeah, I live here pretty much alone right now. No housingSebastian: Yeah, I live here pretty much alone right now. No housingSebastian: Yeah, I live here pretty much alone right now. No housingSebastian: Yeah, I live here pretty much alone right now. No housing
shortage around here. Plenty of room for everybody. (pause)shortage around here. Plenty of room for everybody. (pause)shortage around here. Plenty of room for everybody. (pause)shortage around here. Plenty of room for everybody. (pause)shortage around here. Plenty of room for everybody. (pause)
Pris: (cough).Pris: (cough).Pris: (cough).Pris: (cough).Pris: (cough).
Sebastian: Watch out for the water.Sebastian: Watch out for the water.Sebastian: Watch out for the water.Sebastian: Watch out for the water.Sebastian: Watch out for the water.
Pris: Must get lonely here J. F.Pris: Must get lonely here J. F.Pris: Must get lonely here J. F.Pris: Must get lonely here J. F.Pris: Must get lonely here J. F.
Sebastian: Mmm... Not really. I make friends. They're toys. My friendsSebastian: Mmm... Not really. I make friends. They're toys. My friendsSebastian: Mmm... Not really. I make friends. They're toys. My friendsSebastian: Mmm... Not really. I make friends. They're toys. My friendsSebastian: Mmm... Not really. I make friends. They're toys. My friends
are toys. I make them. It's a hobby. I'm a genetic designer. Do youare toys. I make them. It's a hobby. I'm a genetic designer. Do youare toys. I make them. It's a hobby. I'm a genetic designer. Do youare toys. I make them. It's a hobby. I'm a genetic designer. Do youare toys. I make them. It's a hobby. I'm a genetic designer. Do you
know what that is?know what that is?know what that is?know what that is?know what that is?
Pris: No.Pris: No.Pris: No.Pris: No.Pris: No.
Sebastian: Yoo-hoo, home again.Sebastian: Yoo-hoo, home again.Sebastian: Yoo-hoo, home again.Sebastian: Yoo-hoo, home again.Sebastian: Yoo-hoo, home again.
Toys: Home again, home again, jiggity jig. Good evening J. F.Toys: Home again, home again, jiggity jig. Good evening J. F.Toys: Home again, home again, jiggity jig. Good evening J. F.Toys: Home again, home again, jiggity jig. Good evening J. F.Toys: Home again, home again, jiggity jig. Good evening J. F.
Sebastian: Good evening, fellas.Sebastian: Good evening, fellas.Sebastian: Good evening, fellas.Sebastian: Good evening, fellas.Sebastian: Good evening, fellas.
Toy 1: Oooh!Toy 1: Oooh!Toy 1: Oooh!Toy 1: Oooh!Toy 1: Oooh!
Sebastian: They're my friends. I made them. Where are you're folks?Sebastian: They're my friends. I made them. Where are you're folks?Sebastian: They're my friends. I made them. Where are you're folks?Sebastian: They're my friends. I made them. Where are you're folks?Sebastian: They're my friends. I made them. Where are you're folks?
Pris: I'm sort of an orphan.Pris: I'm sort of an orphan.Pris: I'm sort of an orphan.Pris: I'm sort of an orphan.Pris: I'm sort of an orphan.
Sebastian: Oh, what about your friends?Sebastian: Oh, what about your friends?Sebastian: Oh, what about your friends?Sebastian: Oh, what about your friends?Sebastian: Oh, what about your friends?
Pris: I have some, but I have to find them. I'll let 'em know where IPris: I have some, but I have to find them. I'll let 'em know where IPris: I have some, but I have to find them. I'll let 'em know where IPris: I have some, but I have to find them. I'll let 'em know where IPris: I have some, but I have to find them. I'll let 'em know where I
am tomorrow.am tomorrow.am tomorrow.am tomorrow.am tomorrow.
Sebastian: Oh. Can I take those things for you? They're soaked aren'tSebastian: Oh. Can I take those things for you? They're soaked aren'tSebastian: Oh. Can I take those things for you? They're soaked aren'tSebastian: Oh. Can I take those things for you? They're soaked aren'tSebastian: Oh. Can I take those things for you? They're soaked aren't
they?they?they?they?they?
[scene change...] [Deckard uses the machine thing][scene change...] [Deckard uses the machine thing][scene change...] [Deckard uses the machine thing][scene change...] [Deckard uses the machine thing][scene change...] [Deckard uses the machine thing]
Deckard: Enhance 224 to 176. Enhance, stop. Move in, stop. Pull out,Deckard: Enhance 224 to 176. Enhance, stop. Move in, stop. Pull out,Deckard: Enhance 224 to 176. Enhance, stop. Move in, stop. Pull out,Deckard: Enhance 224 to 176. Enhance, stop. Move in, stop. Pull out,Deckard: Enhance 224 to 176. Enhance, stop. Move in, stop. Pull out,
track right, stop. Center in, pull back. Stop. Track 45 right. Stop.track right, stop. Center in, pull back. Stop. Track 45 right. Stop.track right, stop. Center in, pull back. Stop. Track 45 right. Stop.track right, stop. Center in, pull back. Stop. Track 45 right. Stop.track right, stop. Center in, pull back. Stop. Track 45 right. Stop.
Center and stop. Enhance 34 to 36. Pan right and pull back. Stop.Center and stop. Enhance 34 to 36. Pan right and pull back. Stop.Center and stop. Enhance 34 to 36. Pan right and pull back. Stop.Center and stop. Enhance 34 to 36. Pan right and pull back. Stop.Center and stop. Enhance 34 to 36. Pan right and pull back. Stop.
Enhance 34 to 46. Pull back. Wait a minute, go right, stop. Enhance 57Enhance 34 to 46. Pull back. Wait a minute, go right, stop. Enhance 57Enhance 34 to 46. Pull back. Wait a minute, go right, stop. Enhance 57Enhance 34 to 46. Pull back. Wait a minute, go right, stop. Enhance 57Enhance 34 to 46. Pull back. Wait a minute, go right, stop. Enhance 57
to 19. Track 45 left. Stop. Enhance 15 to 23. Give me a hard copyto 19. Track 45 left. Stop. Enhance 15 to 23. Give me a hard copyto 19. Track 45 left. Stop. Enhance 15 to 23. Give me a hard copyto 19. Track 45 left. Stop. Enhance 15 to 23. Give me a hard copyto 19. Track 45 left. Stop. Enhance 15 to 23. Give me a hard copy
right there.right there.right there.right there.right there.
[Market][Market][Market][Market][Market]
Deckard: Fish?Deckard: Fish?Deckard: Fish?Deckard: Fish?Deckard: Fish?
Lady: I think it was manufactured. Look. Finest quality. SuperiorLady: I think it was manufactured. Look. Finest quality. SuperiorLady: I think it was manufactured. Look. Finest quality. SuperiorLady: I think it was manufactured. Look. Finest quality. SuperiorLady: I think it was manufactured. Look. Finest quality. Superior
workmanship. There is a maker's serial number 9906947-XB71.workmanship. There is a maker's serial number 9906947-XB71.workmanship. There is a maker's serial number 9906947-XB71.workmanship. There is a maker's serial number 9906947-XB71.workmanship. There is a maker's serial number 9906947-XB71.
Interesting. Not fish. Snake scale.Interesting. Not fish. Snake scale.Interesting. Not fish. Snake scale.Interesting. Not fish. Snake scale.Interesting. Not fish. Snake scale.
Deckard: Snake?Deckard: Snake?Deckard: Snake?Deckard: Snake?Deckard: Snake?
Lady: Try Abdul ben Hassan. He make this snake.Lady: Try Abdul ben Hassan. He make this snake.Lady: Try Abdul ben Hassan. He make this snake.Lady: Try Abdul ben Hassan. He make this snake.Lady: Try Abdul ben Hassan. He make this snake.
[Abdul Hassan's][Abdul Hassan's][Abdul Hassan's][Abdul Hassan's][Abdul Hassan's]
Deckard: Abdul Hassan? I'm a police officer, I'd like to ask you a fewDeckard: Abdul Hassan? I'm a police officer, I'd like to ask you a fewDeckard: Abdul Hassan? I'm a police officer, I'd like to ask you a fewDeckard: Abdul Hassan? I'm a police officer, I'd like to ask you a fewDeckard: Abdul Hassan? I'm a police officer, I'd like to ask you a few
questions. Artificial snake license XB71, that's you? This is yourquestions. Artificial snake license XB71, that's you? This is yourquestions. Artificial snake license XB71, that's you? This is yourquestions. Artificial snake license XB71, that's you? This is yourquestions. Artificial snake license XB71, that's you? This is your
work, huh? Who did you sell it to?work, huh? Who did you sell it to?work, huh? Who did you sell it to?work, huh? Who did you sell it to?work, huh? Who did you sell it to?
Abdul: My work? Not too many could afford such quality.Abdul: My work? Not too many could afford such quality.Abdul: My work? Not too many could afford such quality.Abdul: My work? Not too many could afford such quality.Abdul: My work? Not too many could afford such quality.
Deckard: How many?Deckard: How many?Deckard: How many?Deckard: How many?Deckard: How many?
Abdul: Very few.Abdul: Very few.Abdul: Very few.Abdul: Very few.Abdul: Very few.
Deckard: How few? Look my friend.Deckard: How few? Look my friend.Deckard: How few? Look my friend.Deckard: How few? Look my friend.Deckard: How few? Look my friend.
Abdul: Taffy Lewis, down in first sector, Chinatown.Abdul: Taffy Lewis, down in first sector, Chinatown.Abdul: Taffy Lewis, down in first sector, Chinatown.Abdul: Taffy Lewis, down in first sector, Chinatown.Abdul: Taffy Lewis, down in first sector, Chinatown.
[Taffy Lewis's][Taffy Lewis's][Taffy Lewis's][Taffy Lewis's][Taffy Lewis's]
Deckard: Bartender? Taffy Lewis? Taffy, I'd like to ask you a fewDeckard: Bartender? Taffy Lewis? Taffy, I'd like to ask you a fewDeckard: Bartender? Taffy Lewis? Taffy, I'd like to ask you a fewDeckard: Bartender? Taffy Lewis? Taffy, I'd like to ask you a fewDeckard: Bartender? Taffy Lewis? Taffy, I'd like to ask you a few
questions.questions.questions.questions.questions.
Taffy: Blow me.Taffy: Blow me.Taffy: Blow me.Taffy: Blow me.Taffy: Blow me.
Deckard: You ever buy snakes from the Egyptian, Taffy?Deckard: You ever buy snakes from the Egyptian, Taffy?Deckard: You ever buy snakes from the Egyptian, Taffy?Deckard: You ever buy snakes from the Egyptian, Taffy?Deckard: You ever buy snakes from the Egyptian, Taffy?
Taffy: All the time, pal.Taffy: All the time, pal.Taffy: All the time, pal.Taffy: All the time, pal.Taffy: All the time, pal.
Deckard: Every see this girl, huh?Deckard: Every see this girl, huh?Deckard: Every see this girl, huh?Deckard: Every see this girl, huh?Deckard: Every see this girl, huh?
Taffy: Never seen her, buzz off.Taffy: Never seen her, buzz off.Taffy: Never seen her, buzz off.Taffy: Never seen her, buzz off.Taffy: Never seen her, buzz off.
Deckard: Your licenses in order pal?Deckard: Your licenses in order pal?Deckard: Your licenses in order pal?Deckard: Your licenses in order pal?Deckard: Your licenses in order pal?
Taffy: Hey Louie, the man is dry. Give him one on the house. See ya.Taffy: Hey Louie, the man is dry. Give him one on the house. See ya.Taffy: Hey Louie, the man is dry. Give him one on the house. See ya.Taffy: Hey Louie, the man is dry. Give him one on the house. See ya.Taffy: Hey Louie, the man is dry. Give him one on the house. See ya.
[Deckard calls Rachael on a public videophone.][Deckard calls Rachael on a public videophone.][Deckard calls Rachael on a public videophone.][Deckard calls Rachael on a public videophone.][Deckard calls Rachael on a public videophone.]
Rachael: Hello?Rachael: Hello?Rachael: Hello?Rachael: Hello?Rachael: Hello?
Deckard: I've had people walk out on me before, but not when I wasDeckard: I've had people walk out on me before, but not when I wasDeckard: I've had people walk out on me before, but not when I wasDeckard: I've had people walk out on me before, but not when I wasDeckard: I've had people walk out on me before, but not when I was
being so charming. I'm at a bar here now down at the Fourth Sector.being so charming. I'm at a bar here now down at the Fourth Sector.being so charming. I'm at a bar here now down at the Fourth Sector.being so charming. I'm at a bar here now down at the Fourth Sector.being so charming. I'm at a bar here now down at the Fourth Sector.
Taffy Lewis is on the line. Why don't you come on down here and have aTaffy Lewis is on the line. Why don't you come on down here and have aTaffy Lewis is on the line. Why don't you come on down here and have aTaffy Lewis is on the line. Why don't you come on down here and have aTaffy Lewis is on the line. Why don't you come on down here and have a
drink?drink?drink?drink?drink?
Roy: I don't think so, Mr. Deckard. That's not my kind of place.Roy: I don't think so, Mr. Deckard. That's not my kind of place.Roy: I don't think so, Mr. Deckard. That's not my kind of place.Roy: I don't think so, Mr. Deckard. That's not my kind of place.Roy: I don't think so, Mr. Deckard. That's not my kind of place.
Deckard: Go someplace else?Deckard: Go someplace else?Deckard: Go someplace else?Deckard: Go someplace else?Deckard: Go someplace else?
[Deckard returns to the Taffy's][Deckard returns to the Taffy's][Deckard returns to the Taffy's][Deckard returns to the Taffy's][Deckard returns to the Taffy's]
Announcer: Ladies and Gentlemen. Taffy Lewis presents Miss Solamay andAnnouncer: Ladies and Gentlemen. Taffy Lewis presents Miss Solamay andAnnouncer: Ladies and Gentlemen. Taffy Lewis presents Miss Solamay andAnnouncer: Ladies and Gentlemen. Taffy Lewis presents Miss Solamay andAnnouncer: Ladies and Gentlemen. Taffy Lewis presents Miss Solamay and
the snake. Watch her take the pleasures from the serpent that oncethe snake. Watch her take the pleasures from the serpent that oncethe snake. Watch her take the pleasures from the serpent that oncethe snake. Watch her take the pleasures from the serpent that oncethe snake. Watch her take the pleasures from the serpent that once
corrupted man.corrupted man.corrupted man.corrupted man.corrupted man.
[Ms. Solamay's dressing room.][Ms. Solamay's dressing room.][Ms. Solamay's dressing room.][Ms. Solamay's dressing room.][Ms. Solamay's dressing room.]
Deckard: Excuse me, Ms. Solamay, can I talk to you for a minute? I'mDeckard: Excuse me, Ms. Solamay, can I talk to you for a minute? I'mDeckard: Excuse me, Ms. Solamay, can I talk to you for a minute? I'mDeckard: Excuse me, Ms. Solamay, can I talk to you for a minute? I'mDeckard: Excuse me, Ms. Solamay, can I talk to you for a minute? I'm
from the American Federation of Variety Artists.from the American Federation of Variety Artists.from the American Federation of Variety Artists.from the American Federation of Variety Artists.from the American Federation of Variety Artists.
Zhora: Oh, yeah?Zhora: Oh, yeah?Zhora: Oh, yeah?Zhora: Oh, yeah?Zhora: Oh, yeah?
Deckard: I'm not here to make you join. No ma'am. That's not myDeckard: I'm not here to make you join. No ma'am. That's not myDeckard: I'm not here to make you join. No ma'am. That's not myDeckard: I'm not here to make you join. No ma'am. That's not myDeckard: I'm not here to make you join. No ma'am. That's not my
department. Actually, uh. I'm from the, uh, Confidential Committee ondepartment. Actually, uh. I'm from the, uh, Confidential Committee ondepartment. Actually, uh. I'm from the, uh, Confidential Committee ondepartment. Actually, uh. I'm from the, uh, Confidential Committee ondepartment. Actually, uh. I'm from the, uh, Confidential Committee on
Moral Abuses.Moral Abuses.Moral Abuses.Moral Abuses.Moral Abuses.
Zhora: Committee of Moral Abuses?Zhora: Committee of Moral Abuses?Zhora: Committee of Moral Abuses?Zhora: Committee of Moral Abuses?Zhora: Committee of Moral Abuses?
Deckard: Yes, ma'am. There's been some reports that the management hasDeckard: Yes, ma'am. There's been some reports that the management hasDeckard: Yes, ma'am. There's been some reports that the management hasDeckard: Yes, ma'am. There's been some reports that the management hasDeckard: Yes, ma'am. There's been some reports that the management has
been taking liberties with the artists in this place.been taking liberties with the artists in this place.been taking liberties with the artists in this place.been taking liberties with the artists in this place.been taking liberties with the artists in this place.
Zhora: I don't know nothing about it.Zhora: I don't know nothing about it.Zhora: I don't know nothing about it.Zhora: I don't know nothing about it.Zhora: I don't know nothing about it.
Deckard: Have you felt yourself to be exploited in any way?Deckard: Have you felt yourself to be exploited in any way?Deckard: Have you felt yourself to be exploited in any way?Deckard: Have you felt yourself to be exploited in any way?Deckard: Have you felt yourself to be exploited in any way?
Zhora: How do you mean, exploited?Zhora: How do you mean, exploited?Zhora: How do you mean, exploited?Zhora: How do you mean, exploited?Zhora: How do you mean, exploited?
Deckard: Well, like to get this job. I mean, did you do, or-- or wereDeckard: Well, like to get this job. I mean, did you do, or-- or wereDeckard: Well, like to get this job. I mean, did you do, or-- or wereDeckard: Well, like to get this job. I mean, did you do, or-- or wereDeckard: Well, like to get this job. I mean, did you do, or-- or were
you asked to do anything that was lewd or unsavory or otherwise, uh,you asked to do anything that was lewd or unsavory or otherwise, uh,you asked to do anything that was lewd or unsavory or otherwise, uh,you asked to do anything that was lewd or unsavory or otherwise, uh,you asked to do anything that was lewd or unsavory or otherwise, uh,
repulsive to your person, huh?repulsive to your person, huh?repulsive to your person, huh?repulsive to your person, huh?repulsive to your person, huh?
Zhora: Ha. Are you for real?Zhora: Ha. Are you for real?Zhora: Ha. Are you for real?Zhora: Ha. Are you for real?Zhora: Ha. Are you for real?
Deckard: Oh yeah. I'd like to check your dressing room if I may.Deckard: Oh yeah. I'd like to check your dressing room if I may.Deckard: Oh yeah. I'd like to check your dressing room if I may.Deckard: Oh yeah. I'd like to check your dressing room if I may.Deckard: Oh yeah. I'd like to check your dressing room if I may.
Zhora: For what?Zhora: For what?Zhora: For what?Zhora: For what?Zhora: For what?
Deckard: For, uh, for holes.Deckard: For, uh, for holes.Deckard: For, uh, for holes.Deckard: For, uh, for holes.Deckard: For, uh, for holes.
Zhora: Holes?Zhora: Holes?Zhora: Holes?Zhora: Holes?Zhora: Holes?
Deckard: You'd be surprised what a guy'd go through to get a glimpseDeckard: You'd be surprised what a guy'd go through to get a glimpseDeckard: You'd be surprised what a guy'd go through to get a glimpseDeckard: You'd be surprised what a guy'd go through to get a glimpseDeckard: You'd be surprised what a guy'd go through to get a glimpse
of a beautiful body.of a beautiful body.of a beautiful body.of a beautiful body.of a beautiful body.
Zhora: No, I wouldn't.Zhora: No, I wouldn't.Zhora: No, I wouldn't.Zhora: No, I wouldn't.Zhora: No, I wouldn't.
Deckard: Little, uh, dirty holes, uh, they drill in the wall so theyDeckard: Little, uh, dirty holes, uh, they drill in the wall so theyDeckard: Little, uh, dirty holes, uh, they drill in the wall so theyDeckard: Little, uh, dirty holes, uh, they drill in the wall so theyDeckard: Little, uh, dirty holes, uh, they drill in the wall so they
can watch a lady undress. (pause) Is this a real snake?can watch a lady undress. (pause) Is this a real snake?can watch a lady undress. (pause) Is this a real snake?can watch a lady undress. (pause) Is this a real snake?can watch a lady undress. (pause) Is this a real snake?
Zhora: Of course it's not real. Do you think I'd be working in a placeZhora: Of course it's not real. Do you think I'd be working in a placeZhora: Of course it's not real. Do you think I'd be working in a placeZhora: Of course it's not real. Do you think I'd be working in a placeZhora: Of course it's not real. Do you think I'd be working in a place
like this if I could afford a real snake? (pause) So if somebody doeslike this if I could afford a real snake? (pause) So if somebody doeslike this if I could afford a real snake? (pause) So if somebody doeslike this if I could afford a real snake? (pause) So if somebody doeslike this if I could afford a real snake? (pause) So if somebody does
try to exploit me, who do I go to about it?try to exploit me, who do I go to about it?try to exploit me, who do I go to about it?try to exploit me, who do I go to about it?try to exploit me, who do I go to about it?
Deckard: Me.Deckard: Me.Deckard: Me.Deckard: Me.Deckard: Me.
Zhora: You're a dedicated man.Zhora: You're a dedicated man.Zhora: You're a dedicated man.Zhora: You're a dedicated man.Zhora: You're a dedicated man.
[Fight and chase][Fight and chase][Fight and chase][Fight and chase][Fight and chase]
Hari Krishnas: Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari.Hari Krishnas: Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari.Hari Krishnas: Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari.Hari Krishnas: Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari.Hari Krishnas: Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari.
Street Thing: Cross now... Don't walk...Street Thing: Cross now... Don't walk...Street Thing: Cross now... Don't walk...Street Thing: Cross now... Don't walk...Street Thing: Cross now... Don't walk...
Deckard: Move! Get out of the way!Deckard: Move! Get out of the way!Deckard: Move! Get out of the way!Deckard: Move! Get out of the way!Deckard: Move! Get out of the way!
[Deckard fires. Kills Zhora in dramatic slow motion scene.][Deckard fires. Kills Zhora in dramatic slow motion scene.][Deckard fires. Kills Zhora in dramatic slow motion scene.][Deckard fires. Kills Zhora in dramatic slow motion scene.][Deckard fires. Kills Zhora in dramatic slow motion scene.]
Deckard (voice-over): The report would be routine retirement of aDeckard (voice-over): The report would be routine retirement of aDeckard (voice-over): The report would be routine retirement of aDeckard (voice-over): The report would be routine retirement of aDeckard (voice-over): The report would be routine retirement of a
replicant which didn't make me feel any better about shooting a womanreplicant which didn't make me feel any better about shooting a womanreplicant which didn't make me feel any better about shooting a womanreplicant which didn't make me feel any better about shooting a womanreplicant which didn't make me feel any better about shooting a woman
in the back. There it was again. Feeling, in myself. For her, forin the back. There it was again. Feeling, in myself. For her, forin the back. There it was again. Feeling, in myself. For her, forin the back. There it was again. Feeling, in myself. For her, forin the back. There it was again. Feeling, in myself. For her, for
Rachael.Rachael.Rachael.Rachael.Rachael.
Deckard: Deckard. B-263-54.Deckard: Deckard. B-263-54.Deckard: Deckard. B-263-54.Deckard: Deckard. B-263-54.Deckard: Deckard. B-263-54.
Street thing: Move on...Street thing: Move on...Street thing: Move on...Street thing: Move on...Street thing: Move on...
Lady: Yeah what do you want?Lady: Yeah what do you want?Lady: Yeah what do you want?Lady: Yeah what do you want?Lady: Yeah what do you want?
Deckard: Tsing tao. This enough?Deckard: Tsing tao. This enough?Deckard: Tsing tao. This enough?Deckard: Tsing tao. This enough?Deckard: Tsing tao. This enough?
Lady: Yeah.Lady: Yeah.Lady: Yeah.Lady: Yeah.Lady: Yeah.
Gaff: Bryant.Gaff: Bryant.Gaff: Bryant.Gaff: Bryant.Gaff: Bryant.
Bryant: Christ, Deckard, you look almost as bad as that skin job youBryant: Christ, Deckard, you look almost as bad as that skin job youBryant: Christ, Deckard, you look almost as bad as that skin job youBryant: Christ, Deckard, you look almost as bad as that skin job youBryant: Christ, Deckard, you look almost as bad as that skin job you
left on the sidewalk.left on the sidewalk.left on the sidewalk.left on the sidewalk.left on the sidewalk.
Deckard: I'm going home.Deckard: I'm going home.Deckard: I'm going home.Deckard: I'm going home.Deckard: I'm going home.
Bryant: You could learn from this guy Gaff. He's a god damn one manBryant: You could learn from this guy Gaff. He's a god damn one manBryant: You could learn from this guy Gaff. He's a god damn one manBryant: You could learn from this guy Gaff. He's a god damn one manBryant: You could learn from this guy Gaff. He's a god damn one man
slaughter house. That's what he is. Four more to go. Come on Gaff,slaughter house. That's what he is. Four more to go. Come on Gaff,slaughter house. That's what he is. Four more to go. Come on Gaff,slaughter house. That's what he is. Four more to go. Come on Gaff,slaughter house. That's what he is. Four more to go. Come on Gaff,
let's go.let's go.let's go.let's go.let's go.
Deckard: Three. There's three to go.Deckard: Three. There's three to go.Deckard: Three. There's three to go.Deckard: Three. There's three to go.Deckard: Three. There's three to go.
Bryant: There's four. That-- That skin job that you V-K'ed at theBryant: There's four. That-- That skin job that you V-K'ed at theBryant: There's four. That-- That skin job that you V-K'ed at theBryant: There's four. That-- That skin job that you V-K'ed at theBryant: There's four. That-- That skin job that you V-K'ed at the
Tyrell Corporation, Rachael. Disappeared. Vanished. Didn't even knowTyrell Corporation, Rachael. Disappeared. Vanished. Didn't even knowTyrell Corporation, Rachael. Disappeared. Vanished. Didn't even knowTyrell Corporation, Rachael. Disappeared. Vanished. Didn't even knowTyrell Corporation, Rachael. Disappeared. Vanished. Didn't even know
she was a replicant. Something to do with a brain implant says Tyrell.she was a replicant. Something to do with a brain implant says Tyrell.she was a replicant. Something to do with a brain implant says Tyrell.she was a replicant. Something to do with a brain implant says Tyrell.she was a replicant. Something to do with a brain implant says Tyrell.
Come on Gaff. Drink some for me, pal.Come on Gaff. Drink some for me, pal.Come on Gaff. Drink some for me, pal.Come on Gaff. Drink some for me, pal.Come on Gaff. Drink some for me, pal.
[Leon stops Deckard in the street][Leon stops Deckard in the street][Leon stops Deckard in the street][Leon stops Deckard in the street][Leon stops Deckard in the street]
Deckard: Leon.Deckard: Leon.Deckard: Leon.Deckard: Leon.Deckard: Leon.
Leon: How old am I?Leon: How old am I?Leon: How old am I?Leon: How old am I?Leon: How old am I?
Deckard: I don't know.Deckard: I don't know.Deckard: I don't know.Deckard: I don't know.Deckard: I don't know.
Leon: My birthday is April 10, 2017. How long do I live?Leon: My birthday is April 10, 2017. How long do I live?Leon: My birthday is April 10, 2017. How long do I live?Leon: My birthday is April 10, 2017. How long do I live?Leon: My birthday is April 10, 2017. How long do I live?
Deckard: Four years.Deckard: Four years.Deckard: Four years.Deckard: Four years.Deckard: Four years.
Leon: More than you. Painful to live in fear, isn't it? Nothing isLeon: More than you. Painful to live in fear, isn't it? Nothing isLeon: More than you. Painful to live in fear, isn't it? Nothing isLeon: More than you. Painful to live in fear, isn't it? Nothing isLeon: More than you. Painful to live in fear, isn't it? Nothing is
worse than having an itch you can never scratch.worse than having an itch you can never scratch.worse than having an itch you can never scratch.worse than having an itch you can never scratch.worse than having an itch you can never scratch.
Deckard: Oh, I agree.Deckard: Oh, I agree.Deckard: Oh, I agree.Deckard: Oh, I agree.Deckard: Oh, I agree.
Leon: Wake up! Time to die.Leon: Wake up! Time to die.Leon: Wake up! Time to die.Leon: Wake up! Time to die.Leon: Wake up! Time to die.
[Rachael pops some lead into Leon's cranium][Rachael pops some lead into Leon's cranium][Rachael pops some lead into Leon's cranium][Rachael pops some lead into Leon's cranium][Rachael pops some lead into Leon's cranium]
[Back at Deckard apartment][Back at Deckard apartment][Back at Deckard apartment][Back at Deckard apartment][Back at Deckard apartment]
Deckard: Shakes? Me too. I get 'em bad. It's part of the business.Deckard: Shakes? Me too. I get 'em bad. It's part of the business.Deckard: Shakes? Me too. I get 'em bad. It's part of the business.Deckard: Shakes? Me too. I get 'em bad. It's part of the business.Deckard: Shakes? Me too. I get 'em bad. It's part of the business.
Rachael: I'm not in the business. I am the business.Rachael: I'm not in the business. I am the business.Rachael: I'm not in the business. I am the business.Rachael: I'm not in the business. I am the business.Rachael: I'm not in the business. I am the business.
[Deckard gurgles blood.][Deckard gurgles blood.][Deckard gurgles blood.][Deckard gurgles blood.][Deckard gurgles blood.]
Rachael: What if I go north. Disappear. Would you come after me? HuntRachael: What if I go north. Disappear. Would you come after me? HuntRachael: What if I go north. Disappear. Would you come after me? HuntRachael: What if I go north. Disappear. Would you come after me? HuntRachael: What if I go north. Disappear. Would you come after me? Hunt
me?me?me?me?me?
Deckard: No. No, I wouldn't. I owe you one. But somebody would.Deckard: No. No, I wouldn't. I owe you one. But somebody would.Deckard: No. No, I wouldn't. I owe you one. But somebody would.Deckard: No. No, I wouldn't. I owe you one. But somebody would.Deckard: No. No, I wouldn't. I owe you one. But somebody would.
Rachael: Deckard? You know those files on me? The incept dates, theRachael: Deckard? You know those files on me? The incept dates, theRachael: Deckard? You know those files on me? The incept dates, theRachael: Deckard? You know those files on me? The incept dates, theRachael: Deckard? You know those files on me? The incept dates, the
longevity, those things. You saw them?longevity, those things. You saw them?longevity, those things. You saw them?longevity, those things. You saw them?longevity, those things. You saw them?
Deckard: They're classified.Deckard: They're classified.Deckard: They're classified.Deckard: They're classified.Deckard: They're classified.
Rachael: But you're a policeman.Rachael: But you're a policeman.Rachael: But you're a policeman.Rachael: But you're a policeman.Rachael: But you're a policeman.
Deckard: I didn't look at them.Deckard: I didn't look at them.Deckard: I didn't look at them.Deckard: I didn't look at them.Deckard: I didn't look at them.
Rachael: You know that Voight-Kampf test of yours? Did you ever takeRachael: You know that Voight-Kampf test of yours? Did you ever takeRachael: You know that Voight-Kampf test of yours? Did you ever takeRachael: You know that Voight-Kampf test of yours? Did you ever takeRachael: You know that Voight-Kampf test of yours? Did you ever take
that test yourself? Deckard?that test yourself? Deckard?that test yourself? Deckard?that test yourself? Deckard?that test yourself? Deckard?
[Deckard falls asleep while Rachael dis-hairs and plays the piano.][Deckard falls asleep while Rachael dis-hairs and plays the piano.][Deckard falls asleep while Rachael dis-hairs and plays the piano.][Deckard falls asleep while Rachael dis-hairs and plays the piano.][Deckard falls asleep while Rachael dis-hairs and plays the piano.]
Deckard: I dreamt music.Deckard: I dreamt music.Deckard: I dreamt music.Deckard: I dreamt music.Deckard: I dreamt music.
Rachael: I didn't know if I could play. I remember lessons. I don'tRachael: I didn't know if I could play. I remember lessons. I don'tRachael: I didn't know if I could play. I remember lessons. I don'tRachael: I didn't know if I could play. I remember lessons. I don'tRachael: I didn't know if I could play. I remember lessons. I don't
know if it's me or Tyrell's niece.know if it's me or Tyrell's niece.know if it's me or Tyrell's niece.know if it's me or Tyrell's niece.know if it's me or Tyrell's niece.
Deckard: You play beautifully.Deckard: You play beautifully.Deckard: You play beautifully.Deckard: You play beautifully.Deckard: You play beautifully.
[A little rough-housin'][A little rough-housin'][A little rough-housin'][A little rough-housin'][A little rough-housin']
Deckard: Say kiss me.Deckard: Say kiss me.Deckard: Say kiss me.Deckard: Say kiss me.Deckard: Say kiss me.
Rachael: I can't rely on.Rachael: I can't rely on.Rachael: I can't rely on.Rachael: I can't rely on.Rachael: I can't rely on.
Deckard: Say kiss me.Deckard: Say kiss me.Deckard: Say kiss me.Deckard: Say kiss me.Deckard: Say kiss me.
Rachael: Kiss me.Rachael: Kiss me.Rachael: Kiss me.Rachael: Kiss me.Rachael: Kiss me.
Deckard: I want you.Deckard: I want you.Deckard: I want you.Deckard: I want you.Deckard: I want you.
Rachael: I want you.Rachael: I want you.Rachael: I want you.Rachael: I want you.Rachael: I want you.
Deckard: Again.Deckard: Again.Deckard: Again.Deckard: Again.Deckard: Again.
Rachael: I want you. Put your hands on me.Rachael: I want you. Put your hands on me.Rachael: I want you. Put your hands on me.Rachael: I want you. Put your hands on me.Rachael: I want you. Put your hands on me.
[Sebastian's apartment.][Sebastian's apartment.][Sebastian's apartment.][Sebastian's apartment.][Sebastian's apartment.]
Sebastian: Whatcha doing?Sebastian: Whatcha doing?Sebastian: Whatcha doing?Sebastian: Whatcha doing?Sebastian: Whatcha doing?
Pris: Sorry, just peaking.Pris: Sorry, just peaking.Pris: Sorry, just peaking.Pris: Sorry, just peaking.Pris: Sorry, just peaking.
Sebastian: Oh.Sebastian: Oh.Sebastian: Oh.Sebastian: Oh.Sebastian: Oh.
Pris: How do I look?Pris: How do I look?Pris: How do I look?Pris: How do I look?Pris: How do I look?
Sebastian: You look better.Sebastian: You look better.Sebastian: You look better.Sebastian: You look better.Sebastian: You look better.
Pris: Just better?Pris: Just better?Pris: Just better?Pris: Just better?Pris: Just better?
