Zhora: No, I wouldn't.
Deckard: Little, uh, dirty holes, uh, they drill in the wall so they
Deckard: Excuse me, Ms. Solamay, can I talk to you for a minute? I'm
from the American Federation of Variety Artists.
Zhora: Oh, yeah?
Deckard: I'm not here to make you join. No ma'am. That's not my
department. Actually, uh. I'm from the, uh, Confidential Committee on
Moral Abuses.
Zhora: Committee of Moral Abuses?
Deckard: Yes, ma'am. There's been some reports that the management has
been taking liberties with the artists in this place.
Zhora: I don't know nothing about it.
Deckard: Have you felt yourself to be exploited in any way?
Zhora: How do you mean, exploited?
Deckard: Well, like to get this job. I mean, did you do, or-- or were
Deckard: I've had people walk out on me before, but not when I was
being so charming. I'm at a bar here now down at the Fourth Sector.
Taffy Lewis is on the line. Why don't you come on down here and have a
drink?
Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?
Deckard: Sure.
Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?
Deckard: No.
Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?
Tyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of the
so-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntary
dilation of the iris?
Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.
Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.
Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.
Deckard: Where's the subject?
Tyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negative
before I provide you with a positive.
Deckard: What's that going to prove?
Tyrell: Indulge me.
Deckard: On you?
Tyrell: Try her.
Deckard: It's too bright in here.
[the window changes shade, letting less light in]
Rachael: Do you mind if I smoke?
Deckard: It won't affect the test. Alright, I'm going to ask you a
series of questions. Just relax and answer them as simply as you can.
(pause) It's your birthday. Someone gives you a calfskin wallet.
Rachael: I wouldn't accept it. Also, I'd report the person who gave it
to me to the police.
Deckard: You've got a little boy. He shows you his butterfly
collection plus the killing jar.
Rachael: I take him to the doctor.
Deckard: You're watching television. Suddenly you realize there's a
wasp crawling on your arm.
Rachael: I'd kill it.
Deckard: You're reading a magazine. You come across a full-page nude
photo of a girl.
Rachael: Is this testing whether I'm a replicant or a lesbian, Mr.
Deckard?
exactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked in
once more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. I
Deckard: You ever buy snakes from the Egyptian, Taffy?
Taffy: All the time, pal.
Deckard: Every see this girl, huh?
Taffy: Never seen her, buzz off.
Deckard: Your licenses in order pal?
Taffy: Hey Louie, the man is dry. Give him one on the house. See ya.
[Deckard calls Rachael on a public videophone.]
Tyrell: Indulge me.
Deckard: On you?
Tyrell: Try her.
Deckard: It's too bright in here.
[the window changes shade, letting less light in]
Rachael: Do you mind if I smoke?
Deckard: It won't affect the test. Alright, I'm going to ask you a
series of questions. Just relax and answer them as simply as you can.
(pause) It's your birthday. Someone gives you a calfskin wallet.
Rachael: I wouldn't accept it. Also, I'd report the person who gave it
to me to the police.
[Pris and Sebastian enter building.]
Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?
Sebastian: Yeah, I live here pretty much alone right now. No housing
shortage around here. Plenty of room for everybody. (pause)
Pris: (cough).
Sebastian: Watch out for the water.
Pris: Must get lonely here J. F.
Sebastian: Mmm... Not really. I make friends. They're toys. My friends
are toys. I make them. It's a hobby. I'm a genetic designer. Do you
know what that is?
Pris: No.
Sebastian: Yoo-hoo, home again.
Pris: Thanks. (pause) How old are you?
Sebastian: Twenty-five.
Pris: What's you problem?
Sebastian: Methuselah's syndrome.
Roy: Like what?
Sebastian: Like anything.
Roy: We're not computers Sebastian, we're physical.
Pris: I think, Sebastian, therefore I am.
Roy: Very good Pris, now show him why.
[Pris throws hot eggs at Sebastian]
Roy: We've got a lot in common.
Sebastian: What do you mean?
Roy: Similar problems.
Pris: Accelerated decrepitude.
Sebastian: I don't know much about biomechanics, Roy, I wish I did.
Holden: Maybe you're fed up, maybe you want to be by yourself, who
knows? You look down and you see a tortoise, Leon, it's crawling
toward you-
Leon: Tortoise, what's that?
Holden: Know what a turtle is?
Leon: Of course.
Holden: Same thing.
Leon: I've never seen a turtle. (pause) But I understand what you
mean.
Holden: You reach down, you flip the tortoise over on its back Leon.
Leon: Do you make up these questions, Mr. Holden, or do they write
them down for you?
Holden: The tortoise lays on its back, its belly baking in the hot sun
web all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The egg
hatched--
Rachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. And
they ate her.
Deckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebody
else's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a bad
joke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Go
home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.
[Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.]
Zhora: How do you mean, exploited?
Deckard: Well, like to get this job. I mean, did you do, or-- or were
you asked to do anything that was lewd or unsavory or otherwise, uh,
repulsive to your person, huh?
Zhora: Ha. Are you for real?
Deckard: Oh yeah. I'd like to check your dressing room if I may.
Zhora: For what?
Deckard: For, uh, for holes.
Zhora: Holes?
Deckard: You'd be surprised what a guy'd go through to get a glimpse
of a beautiful body.
Zhora: No, I wouldn't.
Deckard: Little, uh, dirty holes, uh, they drill in the wall so they
can watch a lady undress. (pause) Is this a real snake?
Zhora: Of course it's not real. Do you think I'd be working in a place
like this if I could afford a real snake? (pause) So if somebody does
try to exploit me, who do I go to about it?
Deckard: Me.
Zhora: You're a dedicated man.
[Fight and chase]
Hari Krishnas: Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari. Hari, Hari.
Street Thing: Cross now... Don't walk...
Deckard: Move! Get out of the way!
longevity, those things. You saw them?
Deckard: They're classified.
Rachael: But you're a policeman.
Deckard: I didn't look at them.
Rachael: You know that Voight-Kampf test of yours? Did you ever take
that test yourself? Deckard?
those last moments he loved life more than he ever had before. Not
just his life, anybody's life, my life. All he'd wanted were the same
answers the rest of us want. Where did I come from? Where am I going?
know if it's me or Tyrell's niece.
Deckard: You play beautifully.
[A little rough-housin']
Deckard: Say kiss me.
Rachael: I can't rely on.
Deckard: Say kiss me.
Rachael: Kiss me.
Deckard: I want you.
Rachael: I want you.
Deckard: Again.
Pris: Thanks. (pause) How old are you?
Sebastian: Twenty-five.
Pris: What's you problem?
Sebastian: Methuselah's syndrome.
Pris: What's that?
Sebastian: My glands. They grow old too fast.
Pris: Is that why you're still on earth?
Sebastian: Yeah, I couldn't pass the medical. Anyway, I kind of like
it here.
Pris: I like you just the way you are. Hi Roy.
Roy: Ah, gosh. You've really got some nice toys here.
Pris: This is the friend I was telling you about. This is my savior J.
F. Sebastian.
Roy: Sebastian. I like a man that stays put. You live here all by
yourself, do ya?
Sebastian: Yes. (pause) How 'bout some breakfast. I was just gonna
make some.
Pris: Well?
Roy: Leon--
Pris: What's going on.
Roy: Ah-- There's only two of us now.
Pris: Then we're stupid and we'll die.
Roy: No we won't.
[Sebastian and Roy at chess board]
Sebastian: No, knight takes queen, see. No good.
Roy: Why are you staring at us Sebastian?
Sebastian: Because. You're so different. You're so perfect.
Roy: Yes.
Sebastian: What generation are you?
Roy: Nexus six.
Deckard: No choice, huh?
Bryant: No choice pal.
--- [Video room]
Leon (video): I already had an IQ test this year, I don't think I've
ever had one of these-
Holden (video): Reaction time is a factor in this, so please pay
attention. Now, answer as quickly as you can.
Leon (video): Yeah, sure.
Holden (video): 1-1-8-7 at Hunter-Vasser.
Leon (video): Yeah, that's the hotel.
Holden (video): What?
Leon (video): Where I live.
Holden (video): Nice place?
Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--
Bryant: There was an escape from the off-world colonies two weeks ago.
Six replicants, three male, three female. They slaughtered
twenty-three people and jumped a shuttle. An aerial patrol spotted the
ship off the coast. No crew, no sight of them. Three nights ago they
tried to break into Tyrell Corporation. One of them got fried running
through an electrical field. We lost the others. On the possibility
they might try to infiltrate his employees, I had Holden go over and
run Voight-Kampff tests on the new workers. Looks like he got himself
one.
Holden (video): So you look down you see a tortoise. It's crawling
toward you.
Leon (video): Tortoise, what's that?
Holden (video): Know what a turtle is?
Leon (video): Of course.
Holden (video): Same thing.
Leon (video): I've never seen a turtle.
Deckard: I don't get it. What do they risk coming back to earth for?
That's unusual. Why--what do they want from the Tyrell Corporation?
Bryant: Well you tell me pal, that's what you're here for.
Deckard: [funny look]. [pause] What's this?
Bryant: Nexus 6. Roy Batty. Incept date 2016. Combat model. Optimum
self-sufficiency. Probably the leader. This is Zhora. She's trained
for an off-world kick-murder squad. Talk about beauty and the beast,
she's both. The fourth skin job is Pris. A basic pleasure model. The
standard item for military clubs in the outer colonies. They were
designed to copy human beings in every way except their emotions. The
designers reckoned that after a few years they might develop their own
emotional responses. You know, hate, love, fear, envy. So they built
in a fail-safe device.
Deckard: Which is what?
Bryant: Four year life span.
Bryant: Now there's a Nexus 6 over at the Tyrell Corporation. I want
you to go put the machine on it.
Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?
[Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building]
Deckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full of
killing. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that's
exactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked in
once more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. I
didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,
so he didn't want me back anyway.
[inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian]
Rachael: Do you like our owl?
Deckard: It's artificial?
Rachael: Of course it is.
Deckard: Must be expensive.
Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.
Deckard: Deckard.
Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.
Deckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either a
benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.
Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?
Deckard: Sure.
Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?
Deckard: No.
Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?
Tyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of the
so-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntary
dilation of the iris?
Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.
Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.
Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.
Deckard: Where's the subject?
Tyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negative
before I provide you with a positive.
Deckard: What's that going to prove?
Tyrell: Indulge me.
Deckard: On you?
Tyrell: Try her.
Deckard: It's too bright in here.
[the window changes shade, letting less light in]
Rachael: Do you mind if I smoke?
Deckard: It won't affect the test. Alright, I'm going to ask you a
series of questions. Just relax and answer them as simply as you can.
(pause) It's your birthday. Someone gives you a calfskin wallet.
Rachael: I wouldn't accept it. Also, I'd report the person who gave it
to me to the police.
Deckard: You've got a little boy. He shows you his butterfly
collection plus the killing jar.
Rachael: I take him to the doctor.
Deckard: You're watching television. Suddenly you realize there's a
wasp crawling on your arm.
Rachael: I'd kill it.
Deckard: You're reading a magazine. You come across a full-page nude
photo of a girl.
Rachael: Is this testing whether I'm a replicant or a lesbian, Mr.
Deckard?
Deckard: Just answer the questions, please. (pause) You show it to
your husband. He likes it so much he hangs it on your bedroom wall.
Deckard (background): bush outside your window
Rachael: I wouldn't let him.
Deckard (background): orange body, green legs
Deckard: Why not?
Rachael: I should be enough for him.
[audio fades out and in, time passes.]
Deckard: One more question. You're watching a stage play. A banquet is
in progress. The guests are enjoying an appetizer of raw oysters. The
entree consists of boiled dog.
Tyrell: Would you step out for a few moments, Rachael? (pause) Thank
you.
Deckard: She's a replicant, isn't she?
Tyrell: I'm impressed. How many questions does it usually take to spot
them?
Deckard: I don't get it Tyrell.
Tyrell: How many questions?
Deckard: Twenty, thirty, cross-referenced.
Tyrell: It took more than a hundred for Rachael, didn't it?
Deckard: She doesn't know?!
Tyrell: She's beginning to suspect, I think.
[Pris and Sebastian enter building.]
Pris: Do you live in this building all by yourself?
Sebastian: Yeah, I live here pretty much alone right now. No housing
shortage around here. Plenty of room for everybody. (pause)
Pris: (cough).
Sebastian: Watch out for the water.
Pris: Must get lonely here J. F.
Sebastian: Mmm... Not really. I make friends. They're toys. My friends
are toys. I make them. It's a hobby. I'm a genetic designer. Do you
know what that is?
Pris: No.
Sebastian: Yoo-hoo, home again.
Toys: Home again, home again, jiggity jig. Good evening J. F.
Sebastian: Good evening, fellas.
Toy 1: Oooh!
Sebastian: They're my friends. I made them. Where are you're folks?
Pris: I'm sort of an orphan.
Sebastian: Oh, what about your friends?
Pris: I have some, but I have to find them. I'll let 'em know where I
am tomorrow.
Sebastian: Oh. Can I take those things for you? They're soaked aren't
they?
[scene change...] [Deckard uses the machine thing]
Deckard: Enhance 224 to 176. Enhance, stop. Move in, stop. Pull out,
track right, stop. Center in, pull back. Stop. Track 45 right. Stop.
Center and stop. Enhance 34 to 36. Pan right and pull back. Stop.
Enhance 34 to 46. Pull back. Wait a minute, go right, stop. Enhance 57
to 19. Track 45 left. Stop. Enhance 15 to 23. Give me a hard copy
[Leon meets Roy outside of phonebooth]
Roy: Time enough. (pause) Did you get your precious photos?
Leon: Someone was there.
Roy: Man? (pause) Policeman?
[Roy and Leon enter Chew's laboratory]
Chew: (mumbles to himself) (pause) (screaming)
Roy: Fiery the angels fell. Deep thunder rode around their shores,
burning with the fires of Orc.
Chew: (stuff). You not come here. Illegal. (pause) Hey. Hey. Cold!
Those are my eyes! Freezing!
Roy: Yes, questions.
[Leon removes Chew's jacket.]
Roy: Morphology, longevity, incept dates.
Chew: Don't know -- I, I don't know such stuff. I just do eyes. Just
eyes -- Just genetic design of eyes -- just eyes. You Nexus, huh? I
design your eyes.
Roy: Chew, if only you could see what I've seen with your eyes.
Questions.
Chew: I don't know answers.
Roy: Who does?
Chew: Tyrell. He -- He knows everything.
Roy: Tyrell corporation?
Chew: He big boss. He genius. He design your mind, your brain.
Roy: Ah, smart.
Chew: Cold.
Roy: Not an easy man to see--
Chew: Very cold.
Roy: I guess?
Chew: Sebastian he take-- take you there.
Roy: Sebastian who?
Chew: J. -- J. F. Sebastian-- Sebas... Sebas...
Roy: Now--where would we find this J. F. Sebastian?
[In spinner, listening to Leon's video]
Holden (video): Describe in single words, only the good things that
come in to your mind about: your mother.
Leon (video): My mother?
Holden (video): Yeah.
Leon (video): I'll tell you about my mother. (shot fired)
**** is this right ****? [cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on
Deckard, reading a newspaper]
Elevator: Voice print identification. Your floor number please.
Deckard: Deckard, ninety-seven.
Elevator: Ninety-seven, thank-you, danke.
Rachael: I wanted to see you, (pause) so I waited. Let me help.
Deckard: What do I need help for?
Rachael: I don't know why he told you what he did.
Deckard: Talk to him.
Rachael: He wouldn't see me.
Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?
Rachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's me
with my mother.
Deckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and your
brother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--you
were gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be your
turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?
Your mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in a
bush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build a
web all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The egg
hatched--
Rachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. And
they ate her.
Deckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebody
else's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a bad
joke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Go
home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.
[Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.]
Deckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right down
to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.
Replicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were blade
runners. What the hell was happening to me? Leon's pictures had to be
as phony as Rachael's. I didn't know why a replicant would collect
photos. Maybe they were like Rachael. They needed memories.
[Deckard, on balcony.]
[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers
herself in trash pile.]
Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...
Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.
Pris: I'm lost.
Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?
Pris: Pris.
