replicant which didn't make me feel any better about shooting a woman
in the back. There it was again. Feeling, in myself. For her, for
Rachael.
Roy: Can the maker repair what he makes.
Tyrell: Would you like to be modified?
Tyrell: Indulge me.
Deckard: On you?
Deckard (voice-over): I don't know why he saved my life. Maybe in
Deckard: Why not?
Rachael: I should be enough for him.
Deckard (background): orange body, green legs
Deckard: Why not?
Rachael: I should be enough for him.
[audio fades out and in, time passes.]
Deckard: One more question. You're watching a stage play. A banquet is
in progress. The guests are enjoying an appetizer of raw oysters. The
entree consists of boiled dog.
Tyrell: Would you step out for a few moments, Rachael? (pause) Thank
you.
Deckard: She's a replicant, isn't she?
Tyrell: I'm impressed. How many questions does it usually take to spot
them?
Deckard: I don't get it Tyrell.
Tyrell: How many questions?
Deckard: Twenty, thirty, cross-referenced.
I've ever had one of these-
Holden: Reaction time is a factor in this, so please pay attention.
Now, answer as quickly as you can.
Leon: Sure.
Holden: One-one-eight-seven at Hunter-Vasser.
Leon: That's the hotel.
Holden: What?
Leon: Where I live.
Holden: Nice place?
Leon: Yeah, sure I guess--that part of the test?
Holden: No, just warming you up, that's all.
Leon: Oh. It's not fancy or anything.
Holden: You're in a desert, walking along in the sand when all of the
sudden-
Leon: Is this the test now?
Holden: Yes. You're in a desert walking along in the sand when all of
the sudden you look down-
Leon: What one?
Holden: What?
Leon: What desert?
Holden: It doesn't make any difference what desert, it's completely
hypothetical.
Leon: But how come I'd be there?
Holden: Maybe you're fed up, maybe you want to be by yourself, who
knows? You look down and you see a tortoise, Leon, it's crawling
toward you-
Leon: Tortoise, what's that?
Holden: Know what a turtle is?
Leon: Of course.
Holden: Same thing.
Deckard: Go someplace else?
[Deckard returns to the Taffy's]
Announcer: Ladies and Gentlemen. Taffy Lewis presents Miss Solamay and
the snake. Watch her take the pleasures from the serpent that once
corrupted man.
[Ms. Solamay's dressing room.]
Deckard: Excuse me, Ms. Solamay, can I talk to you for a minute? I'm
from the American Federation of Variety Artists.
Zhora: Oh, yeah?
Tyrell: 66 thousand Prosser and Ankovich. Hmmm.. Trade. Trade at--
Computer: New entry. A Mr. J. F. Sebastian. 1-6-4-1-7.
Tyrell: At this hour? What can I do for you Sebastian.
Sebastian: Queen to Bishop 6. Check.
Tyrell: Nonsense. Just a moment. Mmmm. Queen to Bishop 6. Ridiculous.
Queen to Bishop 6. Hmmm... Knight takes Queen. (pause) What's on your
Roy: You better get it up, or I'm gonna have to kill ya! Unless your
alive, you can't play, and if you don't play... Six, seven. Go to
hell, go to heaven.
[Fight]
Roy: Yeah, that's the spirit.
[Deckard hits Roy with pipe.]
Roy: That hurt. That was irrational. Not to mention, unsportsman like.
Ha ha ha. Where are you going?
[Deckard does some amazing climbing, then jumps to next building. Roy
follows, after tossing a bird.]
Roy: Quite an experience to live in fear, isn't it? That's what it is
to be a slave.
[Deckard falls, Roy catches him.]
Roy: I've seen things you people wouldn't believe. Attack ships on
fire off the shoulder of Orion. I watched C-beams glitter in the
darkness at Tan Hauser Gate. All those moments will be lost in time
like tears in rain. Time to die.
Deckard (voice-over): I don't know why he saved my life. Maybe in
those last moments he loved life more than he ever had before. Not
just his life, anybody's life, my life. All he'd wanted were the same
answers the rest of us want. Where did I come from? Where am I going?
Rachael: I didn't know if I could play. I remember lessons. I don't
know if it's me or Tyrell's niece.
Deckard: You play beautifully.
[A little rough-housin']
Deckard: Say kiss me.
Rachael: I can't rely on.
Deckard: Say kiss me.
Rachael: Kiss me.
Deckard: I want you.
Rachael: I want you.
Deckard: Again.
Tyrell Corporation. There's some of me in you. Show me something.
Roy: Like what?
Sebastian: Like anything.
Roy: We're not computers Sebastian, we're physical.
Pris: I think, Sebastian, therefore I am.
Roy: Very good Pris, now show him why.
[Pris throws hot eggs at Sebastian]
Roy: We've got a lot in common.
Sebastian: What do you mean?
Roy: Similar problems.
Pris: Accelerated decrepitude.
Sebastian: I don't know much about biomechanics, Roy, I wish I did.
Roy: If we don't find help soon, Pris hasn't got long to live. We
can't allow that. (pause) Is he good?
Sebastian: Who?
Roy: Your opponent.
Sebastian: Oh, Dr. Tyrell? I've only beaten him once in chess. He's a
genius. He designed you.
Roy: Maybe he could help.
Sebastian: I'd be happy to mention it to him.
Roy: Better if I talk to him in person. But I understand he's a sort
of hard man to get to.
Sebastian: Yes, very.
Roy: Will you help us?
Sebastian: I can't.
Pris: We need you Sebastian. You're our best and only friend.
Roy: (Goofy chinese accent) We're so happy you found us.
Pris: I don't think there's another human being in the whole world who
would have helped us.
[To Tyrell's house.]
Tyrell: 66 thousand Prosser and Ankovich. Hmmm.. Trade. Trade at--
Computer: New entry. A Mr. J. F. Sebastian. 1-6-4-1-7.
Tyrell: At this hour? What can I do for you Sebastian.
Sebastian: Queen to Bishop 6. Check.
Tyrell: Nonsense. Just a moment. Mmmm. Queen to Bishop 6. Ridiculous.
Queen to Bishop 6. Hmmm... Knight takes Queen. (pause) What's on your
mine Sebastian. What are you thinking about.
Roy: (whispered) Bishop to King 7.
Sebastian: Bishop to King 7. Check mate, I think.
Tyrell: Quite a brainstorm, uh, Sebastian. Milk and cookies kept you
awake, huh? Lets discuss this. You better come up, Sebastian.
Sebastian: Mr. Tyrell. I-- I brought a friend.
Tyrell: I'm surprised you didn't come here sooner.
Roy: It's not an easy thing to meet your maker.
Tyrell: What can he do for you?
Roy: Can the maker repair what he makes.
Tyrell: Would you like to be modified?
Roy: Stay here. (pause) I had in mind something a little more radical.
Tyrell: What-- What seems to be the problem?
Roy: Death.
Tyrell: Death. Well, I'm afraid that's a little out of my
jurisdiction, you--
Roy: I want more life, fucker.
Tyrell: The facts of life. To make an alteration in the evolvment of
an organic life system is fatal. A coding sequence cannot be revised
once it's been established.
Roy: Why not?
Tyrell: Because by the second day of incubation, any cells that have
undergone reversion mutations give rise to revertant colonies like
rats leaving a sinking ship. Then the ship sinks.
Roy: What about EMS recombination.
Tyrell: We've already tried it. Ethyl methane sulfanate as an
alkalating agent and potent mutagen. It created a virus so lethal the
subject was dead before he left the table.
Roy: Then a repressive protein that blocks the operating cells.
Tyrell: Wouldn't obstruct replication, but it does give rise to an
error in replication so that the newly formed DNA strand carries the
mutation and you've got a virus again. But, uh, this-- all of this is
academic. You were made as well as we could make you.
Roy: But not to last.
Tyrell: The light that burns twice as bright burns half as long. And
you have burned so very very brightly, Roy. Look at you. You're the
prodigal son. You're quite a prize!
Roy: I've done questionable things.
Tyrell: Also extraordinary things. Revel in your time.
Roy: Nothing the god of biomechanics wouldn't let you in heaven for.
[Tyrell screams as his eyes are gouged out.]
[On the street...]
Bryant: Body identified with Tyrell as a twenty-five year old male
caucasian named Sebastian. J. F. Sebastian. Address Bradbury
apartments, ninth sector. NM46751. I want you to go down there---
Cop: This sector's closed to ground traffic. What are you doing here?
Deckard: I'm working. What are you doing?
Cop: Arresting you. That's what I'm doing.
Deckard: I'm Deckard. Blade runner. Two sixty three-fifty four. I'm
filed and monitored ( Cop: Checking. (pause) Okay, checked and
Leon (video): Yeah, sure.
Holden (video): 1-1-8-7 at Hunter-Vasser.
Leon (video): Yeah, that's the hotel.
Holden (video): What?
Leon (video): Where I live.
Holden (video): Nice place?
Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--
Bryant: There was an escape from the off-world colonies two weeks ago.
Six replicants, three male, three female. They slaughtered
twenty-three people and jumped a shuttle. An aerial patrol spotted the
ship off the coast. No crew, no sight of them. Three nights ago they
tried to break into Tyrell Corporation. One of them got fried running
through an electrical field. We lost the others. On the possibility
they might try to infiltrate his employees, I had Holden go over and
run Voight-Kampff tests on the new workers. Looks like he got himself
one.
Holden (video): So you look down you see a tortoise. It's crawling
toward you.
Leon (video): Tortoise, what's that?
Holden (video): Know what a turtle is?
Leon (video): Of course.
Holden (video): Same thing.
Leon (video): I've never seen a turtle.
Deckard: I don't get it. What do they risk coming back to earth for?
That's unusual. Why--what do they want from the Tyrell Corporation?
Bryant: Well you tell me pal, that's what you're here for.
Deckard: [funny look]. [pause] What's this?
Bryant: Nexus 6. Roy Batty. Incept date 2016. Combat model. Optimum
self-sufficiency. Probably the leader. This is Zhora. She's trained
for an off-world kick-murder squad. Talk about beauty and the beast,
she's both. The fourth skin job is Pris. A basic pleasure model. The
standard item for military clubs in the outer colonies. They were
designed to copy human beings in every way except their emotions. The
designers reckoned that after a few years they might develop their own
emotional responses. You know, hate, love, fear, envy. So they built
in a fail-safe device.
Deckard: Which is what?
Bryant: Four year life span.
Bryant: Now there's a Nexus 6 over at the Tyrell Corporation. I want
you to go put the machine on it.
Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?
[Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building]
Deckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full of
killing. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that's
exactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked in
once more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. I
didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,
so he didn't want me back anyway.
[inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian]
Rachael: Do you like our owl?
Deckard: It's artificial?
Rachael: Of course it is.
Deckard: Must be expensive.
Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.
Deckard: Deckard.
Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.
Deckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either a
benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.
Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?
Deckard: Sure.
Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?
Deckard: No.
Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?
Tyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of the
so-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntary
dilation of the iris?
Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.
Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.
Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.
Deckard: Where's the subject?
Leon: I've never seen a turtle. (pause) But I understand what you
mean.
Holden: You reach down, you flip the tortoise over on its back Leon.
Leon: Do you make up these questions, Mr. Holden, or do they write
them down for you?
Holden: The tortoise lays on its back, its belly baking in the hot sun
beating its legs trying to turn itself over but it can't, not without
your help, but you're not helping.
Leon: What do you mean I'm not helping?
Holden: I mean, you're not helping. Why is that Leon? (pause) They're
just questions, Leon. In answer to your query, they're written down
for me. It's a test, designed to provoke an emotional response.
(pause) Shall we continue? Describe in single words, only the good
things that come in to your mind about: your mother.
Leon: My mother?
Holden: Yeah.
Leon: Let me tell you about my mother. (shot fired)
[cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on Deckard, reading a
newspaper]
Overhead blimp: A new life awaits you in the off-world colonies, the
chance to begin again in a golden land of opportunity and adventure.
New climate...
Overhead blimp: A new life awaits you in the off-world colonies, the
chance to begin again in a golden land of opportunity and adventure.
New climate, recreation facilities...
Deckard (voice-over): They don't advertise for killers in the
newspaper. That was my profession. Ex-cop, ex-bladerunner, ex-killer.
Overhead blimp: Use your new friend as a
[Deckard walks over to Chinese carry-out stand]
Deckard: Give me four. No, two, two, four. And noodles.
Deckard (voice over): Sushi, that's what my ex-wife called me. Cold
fish.
Gaff: Hey, idi-wa.
Chinese dude: He say you under arrest, Mr. Deckard.
Deckard: Got the wrong guy, pal.
Gaff:
Chinese dude: He say you blade runner.
Deckard: Tell him I'm eating.
Gaff:
Deckard: Bryant, huh?
[Deckard and Gaff take off vertically in spinner to see Bryant.]
Spinner: climb and maintain 4000 ... when approaching pad six ...
Deckard (voice-over): The charmer's name was Gaff. I'd seen him
around. Bryant must have upped him to the Blade Runner unit. That
gibberish he talked was city-speak, guttertalk, a mishmash of
Japanese, Spanish, German, what have you. I didn't really need a
translator. I knew the lingo, every good cop did. But I wasn't going
to make it easier for him.
Spinner: ...now on glide path, on course, over the landing threshold.
[Bryant's office]
Bryant: Hiya Deck.
Deckard: Bryant.
Bryant: You wouldn't have come if I just asked you to. Sit down pal.
C'mon don't be an asshole Deckard. I've got four skin jobs walking the
streets.
Deckard (voice-over): Skin jobs, that's what Bryant called replicants.
In history books he was the kind of cop that used to call black men
niggers.
Bryant: They jumped a shuttle off world killed the crew and
passengers. They found the shuttle drifting off the coast two weeks
ago so we know they're around.
Deckard: Embarrassing.
Bryant: No sir. Not embarrassing, because no one's ever going to find
out they're down here. Because you're going to spot them, and you're
going to air them out.
Decakrd: I don't work here anymore. Give it to Holden, he's good.
Bryant: I did. He can breath okay as long as nobody unplugs him. He's
not good enough, not as good as you. I need you, Deck. This is a bad
one, the worse yet. I need the old bladerunner, I need your magic.
Deckard: I was quit when I came in here. I'm twice as quit now.
Bryant: Stop right where you are. You know the score pal. If you're
not cop, you're little people.
Deckard: No choice, huh?
Bryant: No choice pal.
--- [Video room]
Leon (video): I already had an IQ test this year, I don't think I've
ever had one of these-
Holden (video): Reaction time is a factor in this, so please pay
attention. Now, answer as quickly as you can.
Leon (video): Yeah, sure.
Holden (video): 1-1-8-7 at Hunter-Vasser.
Leon (video): Yeah, that's the hotel.
Holden (video): What?
Leon (video): Where I live.
Holden (video): Nice place?
Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--
Bryant: There was an escape from the off-world colonies two weeks ago.
Six replicants, three male, three female. They slaughtered
twenty-three people and jumped a shuttle. An aerial patrol spotted the
ship off the coast. No crew, no sight of them. Three nights ago they
tried to break into Tyrell Corporation. One of them got fried running
through an electrical field. We lost the others. On the possibility
they might try to infiltrate his employees, I had Holden go over and
run Voight-Kampff tests on the new workers. Looks like he got himself
one.
Holden (video): So you look down you see a tortoise. It's crawling
toward you.
Leon (video): Tortoise, what's that?
Holden (video): Know what a turtle is?
Leon (video): Of course.
Holden (video): Same thing.
Leon (video): I've never seen a turtle.
Deckard: I don't get it. What do they risk coming back to earth for?
That's unusual. Why--what do they want from the Tyrell Corporation?
Bryant: Well you tell me pal, that's what you're here for.
Deckard: [funny look]. [pause] What's this?
Bryant: Nexus 6. Roy Batty. Incept date 2016. Combat model. Optimum
self-sufficiency. Probably the leader. This is Zhora. She's trained
for an off-world kick-murder squad. Talk about beauty and the beast,
she's both. The fourth skin job is Pris. A basic pleasure model. The
standard item for military clubs in the outer colonies. They were
designed to copy human beings in every way except their emotions. The
designers reckoned that after a few years they might develop their own
emotional responses. You know, hate, love, fear, envy. So they built
in a fail-safe device.
Deckard: Which is what?
Bryant: Four year life span.
Bryant: Now there's a Nexus 6 over at the Tyrell Corporation. I want
you to go put the machine on it.
Deckard: And if the machine doesn't work?
[Deckard flies to the enormous Tyrell building]
Deckard (voice-over): I'd quit because I'd had a belly full of
killing. But then I'd rather be a killer than a victim. And that's
exactly what Bryant's threat about little people meant. So I hooked in
once more, thinking that if I couldn't take it, I'd split later. I
didn't have to worry about Gaff. He was brown-nosing for a promotion,
so he didn't want me back anyway.
[inside the Tyrell building--looks faintly Egyptian]
Rachael: Do you like our owl?
Deckard: It's artificial?
Rachael: Of course it is.
Deckard: Must be expensive.
Rachael: Very. I'm Rachael.
Deckard: Deckard.
Rachael: It seems you feel our work is not a benefit to the public.
Deckard: Replicants are like any other machine. They're either a
benefit or a hazard. If they're a benefit, it's not my problem.
Rachael: May I ask you a personal question?
Deckard: Sure.
Rachael: Have you ever retired a human by mistake?
Deckard: No.
Rachael: But in your position that is a risk?
Tyrell: Is this to be an empathy test? Capillary dilation of the
so-called blush response? Fluctuation of the pupil? Involuntary
dilation of the iris?
Deckard: We call it Voight-Kampff for short.
Rachael: Mr. Deckard, Dr. Eldon Tyrell.
Tyrell: Demonstrate it. I want to see it work.
Deckard: Where's the subject?
Tyrell: I want to see it work on a person. I want to see a negative
before I provide you with a positive.
Deckard: What's that going to prove?
Tyrell: Indulge me.
Deckard: On you?
Tyrell: Try her.
Deckard: It's too bright in here.
[the window changes shade, letting less light in]
Rachael: Do you mind if I smoke?
Deckard: It won't affect the test. Alright, I'm going to ask you a
series of questions. Just relax and answer them as simply as you can.
(pause) It's your birthday. Someone gives you a calfskin wallet.
Rachael: I wouldn't accept it. Also, I'd report the person who gave it
to me to the police.
Deckard: You've got a little boy. He shows you his butterfly
collection plus the killing jar.
Rachael: I take him to the doctor.
Deckard: You're watching television. Suddenly you realize there's a
wasp crawling on your arm.
Rachael: I'd kill it.
Deckard: You're reading a magazine. You come across a full-page nude
photo of a girl.
Rachael: Is this testing whether I'm a replicant or a lesbian, Mr.
Deckard?
Deckard: Just answer the questions, please. (pause) You show it to
your husband. He likes it so much he hangs it on your bedroom wall.
Deckard (background): bush outside your window
Rachael: I wouldn't let him.
Deckard (background): orange body, green legs
Deckard: Why not?
Rachael: I should be enough for him.
[audio fades out and in, time passes.]
Deckard: One more question. You're watching a stage play. A banquet is
in progress. The guests are enjoying an appetizer of raw oysters. The
entree consists of boiled dog.
Tyrell: Would you step out for a few moments, Rachael? (pause) Thank
you.
Deckard: She's a replicant, isn't she?
Tyrell: I'm impressed. How many questions does it usually take to spot
them?
Deckard: I don't get it Tyrell.
Tyrell: How many questions?
Deckard: Twenty, thirty, cross-referenced.
Tyrell: It took more than a hundred for Rachael, didn't it?
Deckard: She doesn't know?!
Tyrell: She's beginning to suspect, I think.
Deckard: Suspect? How can it not know what it is?
Tyrell: Commerce, is our goal here at Tyrell. More human than human is
our motto. Rachael is an experiment, nothing more. We began to
recognize in them strange obsessions. After all they are emotional
inexperienced with only a few years in which to store up the
experiences which you and I take for granted. If we give them the past
we create a cushion or pillow for their emotions and consequently we
can control them better.
Deckard: Memories. You're talking about memories.
[Deckard and Gaff drive to Leon's apartment in spinner, watching
Leon's video.]
Holden (video): Reaction time is a factor in this, so please pay
attention. Now, answer as quickly as you can.
Leon (video): Sure.
Holden (video): One-one-eight-seven at Hunter-Vasser.
Leon (video): Yeah, That's the hotel.
Holden (video): What?
Leon (video): Where I live.
Holden (video): Nice place?
Leon (video): Yeah, sure I guess--that part of the test?
Holden (video): No--
[Deckard and Gaff inspect the apartment. Deckard finds a scale in the
bathtub and some family photos. Gaff watches quietly, folding an
origami statue of a man with an erection.]
Deckard (voice-over): I didn't know whether Leon gave Holden a legit
address. But it was the only lead I had, so I checked it out. Whatever
was in the bathtub was not human. Replicants don't have scales. And
family photos? Replicants didn't have families either.
[Leon meets Roy outside of phonebooth]
Roy: Time enough. (pause) Did you get your precious photos?
Leon: Someone was there.
Roy: Man? (pause) Policeman?
[Roy and Leon enter Chew's laboratory]
Chew: (mumbles to himself) (pause) (screaming)
Roy: Fiery the angels fell. Deep thunder rode around their shores,
burning with the fires of Orc.
Chew: (stuff). You not come here. Illegal. (pause) Hey. Hey. Cold!
Those are my eyes! Freezing!
Roy: Yes, questions.
[Leon removes Chew's jacket.]
Roy: Morphology, longevity, incept dates.
Chew: Don't know -- I, I don't know such stuff. I just do eyes. Just
eyes -- Just genetic design of eyes -- just eyes. You Nexus, huh? I
design your eyes.
Roy: Chew, if only you could see what I've seen with your eyes.
Questions.
Chew: I don't know answers.
Roy: Who does?
Chew: Tyrell. He -- He knows everything.
Roy: Tyrell corporation?
Chew: He big boss. He genius. He design your mind, your brain.
Roy: Ah, smart.
Chew: Cold.
Roy: Not an easy man to see--
Chew: Very cold.
Roy: I guess?
Chew: Sebastian he take-- take you there.
Roy: Sebastian who?
Chew: J. -- J. F. Sebastian-- Sebas... Sebas...
Roy: Now--where would we find this J. F. Sebastian?
[In spinner, listening to Leon's video]
Holden (video): Describe in single words, only the good things that
come in to your mind about: your mother.
Leon (video): My mother?
Holden (video): Yeah.
Leon (video): I'll tell you about my mother. (shot fired)
**** is this right ****? [cut to overhead shot of city, zooms in on
Deckard, reading a newspaper]
Elevator: Voice print identification. Your floor number please.
Deckard: Deckard, ninety-seven.
Elevator: Ninety-seven, thank-you, danke.
Rachael: I wanted to see you, (pause) so I waited. Let me help.
Deckard: What do I need help for?
Rachael: I don't know why he told you what he did.
Deckard: Talk to him.
Rachael: He wouldn't see me.
Deckard: Do you want a drink? No? No?
Rachael: You think I'm a replicant, don't you? (pause) Look, it's me
with my mother.
Deckard: Yeah. (pause) Remember when you were six? You and your
brother snuck into an empty building through a basement window--you
were gonna play doctor. He showed you his, but when it got to be your
turn you chickened and ran. Remember that? You ever tell anybody that?
Your mother, Tyrell, anybody? You remember the spider that lived in a
bush outside your window: orange body, green legs. Watched her build a
web all summer. Then one day there was a big egg in it. The egg
hatched--
Rachael: The egg hatched, and a hundred baby spiders came out. And
they ate her.
Deckard: Implants! Those aren't your memories. They're somebody
else's. They're Tyrell's niece's. (pause) Okay, bad joke. I made a bad
joke. You're not a replicant. Go home, okay? No really, I'm sorry. Go
home. (pause) Want a drink? I'll get you a drink.
[Rachael runs away when Deckard turns to get a glass.]
Deckard (voice-over): Tyrell really did a job on Rachael. Right down
to a snapshot of a mother she never had, a daughter she never was.
Replicants weren't supposed to have feelings. Neither were blade
runners. What the hell was happening to me? Leon's pictures had to be
as phony as Rachael's. I didn't know why a replicant would collect
photos. Maybe they were like Rachael. They needed memories.
[Deckard, on balcony.]
[Switch to Pris. Outside J. F. Sebastians's apartment building. Covers
herself in trash pile.]
Pris: Pugh... Uhhh... Ungh... Ungh...
Sebastian: Hey! You forgot your bag.
Pris: I'm lost.
Sebastian: Don't worry, I won't hurt you. (pause) What's your name?
Pris: Pris.
Sebastian: Mine's J. F. Sebastian.
Pris: Hi.
Sebastian: Hi. Oh, where were you going? Home?
Pris: I don't have one. We scared each other pretty good, didn't we?
Sebastian: We sure did.
Pris: I'm hungry J. F.
Sebastian: I've got some stuff inside. You want to come in?
Pris: I was hoping you'd say that.
[Pris and Sebastian enter building.]
